He sees me. 

Charlie dropped to her hands and knees. She was 
wedged behind a row of arcade games, cramped in the 
crawl space between the consoles and the wall, tangled 
electrical cords and useless plugs strewn beneath her. She 
was cornered; the only way out was past the thing, and she 
wasn’t fast enough to make it. She could see him stalking 
back and forth, catching flickers of movement through the 
gaps between the games. There was scarcely enough room 
to move, but she tried to crawl backward. Her foot caught 
on a cord. She stopped, contorting herself to carefully 
dislodge it. 

She heard the clash of metal on metal, and the farthest 
console rocked back against the wall. He hit it again, 
Shattering the display, then attacked the next, crashing 


against them almost rhythmically, tearing through the 
machinery, coming closer. 

| have to get out, | have to! The panicked thought was of 
no help; there was no way out. Her arm ached, and she 
wanted to sob aloud. Blood soaked through the tattered 
bandage, and it seemed as though she could feel it draining 
out of her. 

The console a few feet away crashed against the wall, 
and Charlie flinched. He was getting closer; she could hear 
the grinding of gears and the clicking of servos, ever louder. 
Eyes closed, she could still see the way he looked at her, 
see the matted fur and the exposed metal beneath the 
synthetic flesh. 

Suddenly the console in front of her was wrenched away. 
It toppled over, thrown down like a toy. The power cords 
beneath her hands and knees were yanked away, and 
Charlie slipped, almost falling. She caught herself and 
looked up just in time to see the downward swing of a hook 


WELCOME TO HURRICANE, UTAH. 

Charlie smiled wryly at the sign and kept driving. The 
world didn’t look any different from one side of the sign to 
the other, but she felt a nervous anticipation as she passed 
it. She didn’t recognize anything. Then again, she hadn’t 
really expected to, not this far at the edge of town where it 
was all highway and empty space. 

She wondered what the others would look like, who they 
were now. Ten years ago they’d been best friends. And then 
it happened, and everything ended, at least for Charlie. She 


hadn’t seen any of them since she was seven years old. 
They had written all the time as kids, especially Marla, who 
wrote like she talked: fast and incoherent. But as they got 
older they had grown apart, the letters had grown fewer and 
further between, and the conversations leading up to this 
trip had been perfunctory and full of awkward pauses. 
Charlie repeated their names as though to reassure herself 
that she still remembered them: Marla. Jessica. Lamar. 
Carlton. John. And Michael ... Michael was the reason for this 
trip, after all. It was ten years since he’d died, ten years 
since it happened, and now his parents wanted them all 
together for the dedication ceremony. They wanted all his 
old friends there when they announced the scholarship they 
were creating in his name. Charlie knew it was a good thing 
to do, but the gathering still felt slightly macabre. She 
shivered and turned down the air-conditioning, even though 
she knew it was not the cold. 

As she drove into the town center, Charlie began to 
recognize things: a few stores and the movie theater, which 
was now advertising the summer’s blockbuster hit. She felt 
a brief moment of surprise, then smiled at herself. What did 
you expect, that the whole place would be unchanged? A 
monument to the moment of your departure, frozen forever 
in July 1985? Well, that was exactly what she had expected. 
She looked at her watch. Still a few hours to kill before they 
all met up. She thought about going to the movie, but she 
knew what she really wanted to do. Charlie made a left turn 
and headed out of town. 

Ten minutes later, she pulled to a stop and got out. 

The house loomed up before her, its dark outline a 
wound in the bright-blue sky. Charlie leaned back against 
the car, slightly dizzy. She took a moment to steady herself 


with deep breaths. She had known it would be here. An illicit 
look through her aunt’s bank books a few years before had 
told her that the mortgage was paid off and that Aunt Jen 
was still paying property taxes. It had only been ten years; 
there was no reason it should have changed at all. Charlie 
climbed the steps slowly, taking in the peeling paint. The 
third stair still had a loose board, and the rosebushes had 
taken over one side of the porch, their thorns biting hungrily 
into the wood. The door was locked, but Charlie still had her 
key. She had never actually used it. As she took it from 
around her neck and slid it into the lock, she remembered 
her father putting its chain around her neck. /n case you 
ever need it. Well, she needed it now. 

The door opened easily, and Charlie looked around. She 
didn’t remember much about the first couple of years here. 
She had been only three years old, and all the memories 
had faded together in the blur of a child’s grief and loss, of 
not understanding why her mother had to go away, clinging 
to her father every moment, not trusting the world around 
her unless he was there, unless she was holding tightly to 
him, burying herself in his flannel shirts and the smell of 
grease and hot metal and him. 

The stairs stretched straight up in front of her, but she 
did not move directly to them. Instead she went into the 
living room, where all the furniture was still in place. She 
had not really noticed it as a child, but the house was a little 
too large for the furniture they had. Things were spread out 
too widely in order to fill the space: The coffee table was too 
far from the couch to reach, the easy chair too far across 
the room to carry on a conversation. There was a dark stain 
in the wooden floorboards near the center of the room. 
Charlie stepped around it quickly and went to the kitchen, 


where the cupboards held only a few pots, pans, and dishes. 
Charlie had never felt a lack of anything as a child, but it 
seemed now that the unnecessary enormity of the house 
was a sort of apology, the attempt of a man who had lost so 
much to give his daughter what he could. He’d always had a 
way of overdoing whatever he did. 

The last time she was here the house had been dark and 
everything felt wrong. She was carried up the stairs to her 
bedroom although she was seven years old and could have 
gone quicker on her own two feet. But Aunt Jen had stopped 
on the front porch, picked her up, and carried her, shielding 
her face as though she were a baby in the glaring sun. 

In her room, Aunt Jen set Charlie down and closed the 
bedroom door behind them. She told her to pack her 
Suitcase, and Charlie had cried because all her things could 
never fit into that small case. 

“We can come back for the rest later,” Aunt Jen said, her 
impatience leaking through as Charlie hovered indecisively 
at her dresser, trying to decide which T-shirts to bring along. 
They had never come back for the rest. 

Charlie mounted the stairs, heading to her old bedroom. 
The door was partially cracked, and as she opened it she 
had a giddy feeling of displacement, as though her younger 
self might be sitting there among her toys, might look up 
and ask Charlie, Who are you? Charlie went in. 

Like the rest of the house, her bedroom was untouched. 
The walls were pale pink, and the ceiling, which sloped 
dramatically on one side to follow the line of the roof, was 
painted to match. Her old bed still stood against the wall 
beneath a large window; the mattress was still intact, 
though the sheets were gone. The window was cracked 
Slightly open, and rotting lace curtains wavered in the 


gentle breeze from outside. There was a dark water stain in 
the paint beneath the window where the weather had 
gotten in over the years, betraying the house’s neglect. 
Charlie climbed onto the bed and forced the window shut. It 
obeyed with a screech, and Charlie stepped back and turned 
her attention to the rest of the room, to her father’s 
creations. 

Their first night in the house, Charlie had been afraid to 
sleep alone. She did not remember the night, but her father 
had told her about it often enough that the story had taken 
on the quality of memory. She sat up and wailed until her 
father came to find her, until he scooped her up and held 
her and promised her he would make sure she was never 
alone again. The next morning, he took her by the hand and 
led her to the garage, where he set to work keeping that 
promise. 

The first of his inventions was a purple rabbit, now gray 
with age from years of sitting in the sunlight. Her father had 
named him Theodore. He was the size of a three-year-old 
child—her size at the time—and he had plush fur, shining 
eyes, and a dapper red bow tie. He didn’t do much, only 
waved a hand, tilted his head to the side, and said in her 
father’s voice, “| love you, Charlie.” But it was enough to 
give her a night watcher, someone to keep her company 
when she could not sleep. Right now Theodore sat in a white 
wicker chair in the far corner of the room. Charlie waved at 
him, but, not activated, he did not wave back. 

After Theodore, the toys got more complex. Some worked 
and some did not; some seemed to have permanent 
glitches, while others simply did not appeal to Charlie’s 
childish imagination. She knew her father took those back to 
his workshop and recycled them for parts, though she did 


not like to watch them be dismantled. But the ones that 
were kept, those she loved, they were here now, looking at 
her expectantly. Smiling, Charlie pushed a button beside her 
bed. It gave way stiffly, but nothing happened. She pushed 
it again, holding it down longer, and this time, across the 
room and with the weary creak of metal on metal, the 
unicorn began to move. 

The unicorn (Charlie had named him Stanley for some 
reason she could no longer remember) was made of metal 
and had been painted glossy white. He trundled around the 
room on a circular track, bobbing his head stiffly up and 
down. The track squealed as Stanley rounded the corner 
and came to a stop beside the bed. Charlie knelt beside him 
on the floor and patted his flank. His glossy paint was 
chipped and peeling, and his face had given over to rust. His 
eyes were lively, gazing out of the decay. 

“You need a new coat of paint, Stanley,” Charlie said. The 
unicorn stared ahead, unresponsive. 

At the foot of the bed, there was a wheel. Made of 
patched-together metal, it had always reminded her of 
something she might find on a submarine. Charlie turned it. 
It stuck for a moment, then gave way, rotating as it always 
did, and across the room the smallest closet door swung 
open. Out sailed Ella on her track, a child-size doll bearing a 
teacup and saucer in her tiny hands like an offering. Ella’s 
plaid dress was still crisp, and her patent leather shoes still 
shone; perhaps the closet had protected her from the 
damage of the damp. Charlie had had an identical outfit, 
back when she and Ella were the same height. 

“Hi, Ella,” she said softly. As the wheel unwound, Ella 
retreated to the closet again, the door closing behind her. 
Charlie followed her. The closets had been built to align with 


the slant of the ceiling, and there were three of them. Ella 
lived in the short one, which was about three and a half feet 
tall. Next to it was one a foot or so taller, and a third, closest 
to the bedroom door, was the same height as the rest of the 
room. She smiled, remembering. 

“Why do you have three closets?” John had demanded 
the first time he came over. She looked at him blankly, 
confused by the question. 

“ "Cause that’s how many there are,” she said finally. She 
pointed defensively to the littlest one. “That one’s Ella’s 
anyway,” she added. John nodded, satisfied. 

Charlie shook her head and opened the door to the 
middle closet—or tried to. The knob stopped with a jolt: It 
was locked. She rattled it a few times but gave up without 
much conviction. She stayed crouched low to the floor and 
glanced up at the tallest closet, her big-girl closet that she 
would someday grow into. “You won’t need it until you’re 
bigger,” her father would say, but that day never came. The 
door now hung open slightly, but Charlie didn’t disturb it. It 
hadn’t opened for her; it had only given way to time. 

As she moved to stand, she noticed something shiny, 
half-hidden under the rim of the locked middle door. She 
leaned forward to pick it up. It looked like a broken-off piece 
of a circuit board. She smiled slightly. Nuts, bolts, scraps, 
and parts had turned up all over the place, once upon a 
time. Her father always had stray parts in his pockets. He 
would carry around something he was working on, set it 
down, and forget where it was, or worse, put something 
aside “for safekeeping,” never to be seen again. There was 
also a strand of her hair clinging to it; she unwound it 
carefully from the tiny lip of metal it was stuck on. 


Finally, as though she had been putting it off, Charlie 
crossed the room and picked up Theodore. His back had not 
faded in the sun like the front of his body, and it was the 
same rich, dark purple she remembered. She pressed the 
button at the base of his neck, but he remained lifeless. His 
fur was threadbare, one ear hanging loose by a single 
rotting thread, and through the hole she could see the green 
plastic of his circuit board. Charlie held her breath, listening 
fearfully for something. 

“I—ou—lie—” the rabbit said with a barely audible halting 
noise, and Charlie set him down, her face hot and her chest 
pinched tight. She had not really expected to hear her 
father’s voice again. / love you, too. 

Charlie looked around the room. When she was a child it 
had been her own magical world, and she was possessive of 
it. Only a few chosen friends were ever even allowed inside. 
She went to her bed and set Stanley moving on his track 
again. She left, closing the door behind her before the little 
unicorn came to a halt. 

She went out the back door to the driveway and stopped 
in front of the garage that had been her father’s workshop. 
Half-buried in the gravel a few feet away was a piece of 
metal, and Charlie went to pick it up. It was jointed in the 
middle, and she held it in her hands, smiling a little as she 
bent it back and forth. An e/bow joint, she thought. / wonder 
who that was going to belong to? 

She had stood in this exact spot many times before. She 
closed her eyes, and the memory overwhelmed her. She 
was a little girl again, sitting on the floor of her father’s 
workshop, playing with scraps of wood and metal as though 
they were toy blocks, trying to build a tower with the 
uneven pieces. The shop was hot, and she was sweaty, 


grime sticking to her legs as she sat in her shorts and 
sneakers. She could almost smell the sharp, metallic odor of 
the soldering iron. Her father was nearby, never out of sight, 
working on Stanley the unicorn. 

Stanley’s face was still unfinished: one side white and 
shining and friendly, with a gleaming brown eye that 
seemed almost to see. The other half of the toy’s face was 
all exposed circuit boards and metal parts. Charlie’s father 
looked at her and smiled, and she smiled back, beloved. Ina 
darkened corner behind her father, barely visible, hung a 
jumble of metal limbs, a twisted skeleton with burning silver 
eyes. Every once in a while, it gave an uncanny twitch. 
Charlie tried never to look at it, but as her father worked, as 
she played with her makeshift toys, her eye was drawn back 
to it again and again. The limbs, contorted, seemed almost 
mocking, the thing a ghastly jester, and yet there was 
something about it that suggested enormous pain. 

“Daddy?” Charlie said, and her father did not look up 
from his work. “Daddy?” she said again, more urgently, and 
this time he turned to her slowly, as though not fully present 
in the world. 

“What do you need, sweetie?” 

She pointed at the metal skeleton. Does it hurt? She 
wanted to ask the question, but when she looked into her 
father’s eyes she found she could not. She shook her head. 

“Nothing.” 

He nodded at her with an absent smile and went back to 
his work. Behind him, the creature gave another awful 
twitch, and its eyes still burned. 

Charlie shivered and drew herself back to the present. 
She glanced behind her, feeling exposed. She looked down, 
and her gaze fixed on something: three widely spaced 


grooves in the ground. She knelt, thoughtful, and ran her 
finger over one of them. The gravel was scattered away, the 
marks worn heavily into the dirt. A camera tripod of some 
sort? |It was the first unfamiliar thing she’d seen. The door to 
the workshop was cracked open slightly, inviting, but she 
felt no desire to go inside. Quickly, she headed back to her 
car, but she stopped as soon as she settled into the driver’s 
seat. Her keys were gone, having probably fallen out of her 
pocket somewhere inside the house. 

She retraced her steps, merely glancing into the living 
room and kitchen before heading up to her bedroom. The 
keys were on the wicker chair, beside Theodore the rabbit. 
She picked them up and jangled them for a moment, not 
quite ready to leave the room behind. She sat down on the 
bed. Stanley the unicorn had stopped beside the bed as he 
always did, and as she sat, she patted him absently on the 
head. It had grown dark while she was outside, and the 
room was now cast in shadows. Somehow, without the 
bright sunlight, the toys’ flaws and deterioration were 
thrown into sharp relief. Theodore’s eyes no longer shone, 
and his thin fur and hanging ear made him look like a sickly 
vagabond. When she looked down at Stanley, the rust 
around his eyes made them look like hollow sockets, and his 
bared teeth, which she had always thought of as a smile, 
became the awful, knowing grin of a skull. Charlie stood up, 
careful not to touch him, and hurried toward the door, but 
her foot caught on the wheel beside the bed. She tripped on 
the tracks and fell sprawling to the floor. There was a whir of 
spinning metal, and as she raised her head, a small pair of 
feet appeared under her nose, clad in shining patent 
leather. She looked up. 


There above her was Ella, staring down at her, silent and 
uninvited, her glassy eyes almost appearing to see. The 
teacup and saucer were held out before her with a military 
stiffness. Charlie got up cautiously, taking care not to 
disturb the doll. She left the room, stepping carefully to 
avoid accidentally activating any other toys. As Charlie 
went, Ella retreated to her closet, almost matching her pace. 

Charlie hurried down the stairs, seized by an urgency to 
get away. In the car, she fumbled the key three times before 
Sliding it into place. She backed too fast down the driveway, 
running recklessly over the grass of the front yard, and sped 
away. After about a mile, Charlie pulled over on the shoulder 
and turned the car off, staring straight ahead through the 
windshield, her eyes focused on nothing. She forced herself 
to breathe slowly. She reached up and adjusted the rearview 
mirror so she could see herself. 

She always expected to see pain, anger, and sorrow 
written on her face, but they never were. Her cheeks were 
pink, and her round face looked almost cheerful, like always. 
Her first weeks living with Aunt Jen, she heard the same 
things over and over when Aunt Jen introduced her: “What a 
pretty child. What a happy-looking child she is.” Charlie 
always looked like she was about to smile, her brown eyes 
wide and sparkling, her thin mouth ready to curve up, even 
when she wanted to sob. The incongruity was a mild 
betrayal. She ran her fingers through her light brown hair as 
though that would magically fix its slight frizziness and put 
the mirror back into position. 

She turned the car back on and searched for a radio 
station, hoping music might bring her fully back to reality. 
She flipped from station to station, not really hearing what 
any of them were playing, and finally settled on an AM 


broadcast with a host who seemed to be _ yelling 
condescendingly at his audience. She had no idea what he 
was talking about, but the brash and annoying sound was 
enough to jar her back into the present. The clock in the car 
was always wrong, so she checked her watch. It was almost 
time to meet her friends at the diner they had chosen, near 
the center of town. 

Charlie pulled back onto the road and drove, letting the 
sound of the angry talk radio host soothe her mind. 

When she reached the restaurant, Charlie pulled into the 
lot and stopped, but did not park. The front of the diner had 
a long picture window all across it, and she could see right 
inside. Though she had not seen them for years, it took her 
only a moment to spot her friends through the glass. 

Jessica was easiest to pick out from the crowd. She 
always enclosed pictures with her letters, and right now she 
looked exactly like her last photo. Even seated, she was 
clearly taller than either of the boys, and very thin. Though 
Charlie could not see her whole outfit, she was wearing a 
loose white shirt with an embroidered vest, and she had a 
brimmed hat perched on her glossy, shoulder-length brown 
hair, with an enormous flower threatening to tip it off her 
head. She was gesturing excitedly about something as she 
spoke. 

The two boys were sitting next to each other, facing her. 
Carlton looked like an older version of his red-headed 
childhood self. He still had a bit of a baby face, but his 
features had refined, and his hair was carefully tousled and 
held in place by some alchemical hair product. He was 
almost pretty, for a boy, and he wore a black workout shirt, 
though she doubted he’d ever worked out a day in his life. 
He slouched forward on the table, resting his chin in his 


hands. Beside him, John sat closest to the window. John had 
been the kind of child who got dirty before he even went 
outside: There would be paint on his shirt before the teacher 
handed out the watercolors, grass stains on his knees 
before they came near a playground, and dirt under his 
fingernails just after he washed his hands. Charlie knew it 
was him because it had to be, but he looked completely 
different. The grubbiness of childhood had been replaced by 
something crisp and clean. He was wearing a _ neatly 
pressed, light-green button-down shirt, the sleeves rolled up 
and the collar open, preventing him from looking too 
uptight. He was leaning back confidently in the booth, 
nodding enthusiastically, apparently absorbed in whatever 
Jessica was saying. The only concession to his former self 
was his hair, sticking up all over his head, and he had a five- 
o'clock shadow, a smug, adult version of the dirt he was 
always covered in as a kid. 

Charlie smiled to herself. John had been something like 
her childhood crush, before either of them really understood 
what that meant. He gave her cookies from his Transformers 
lunchbox, and once in kindergarten he took the blame when 
she broke the glass jar that held colored beads for arts and 
crafts. She remembered the moment when it slipped from 
her hands, and she watched it fall. She could not have 
moved fast enough to catch it, but she would not have tried. 
She wanted to see it break. The glass hit the wood floor and 
shattered into a thousand pieces, and the beads scattered, 
many colored, among the shards. She thought it was 
beautiful, and then she started to cry. John had a note sent 
home to his parents, and when she told him “thank you” he 
had winked at her with an irony beyond his years and simply 
said, “For what?” 


After that, John was allowed to come to her room. She let 
him play with Stanley and Theodore, watching anxiously the 
first time he learned to press the buttons and make them 
move. She would be crushed if he didn’t like them, knowing 
instinctively that it would make her think less of him. They 
were her family. But John was fascinated as soon as he saw 
them; he loved her mechanical toys, and so she loved him. 
Two years later, behind a tree beside her father’s workshop, 
She almost let him kiss her. And then it happened, and 
everything ended, at least for Charlie. 

Charlie shook herself, forcing her mind back to the 
present. Looking again at Jessica’s polished appearance, she 
glanced down at herself. Purple T-shirt, denim jacket, black 
jeans, and combat boots. It had felt like a good choice this 
morning, but now she wished she had chosen something 
else. This is all you ever wear, she reminded herself. She 
parked and locked the car behind her, even though people 
in Hurricane did not usually lock their cars. Then she went 
into the diner to meet her friends for the first time in ten 
years. 

The warmth, noise, and light of the restaurant hit her ina 
wave as she entered. For a moment she was overwhelmed, 
but Jessica saw her pause in the doorway and shouted her 
name. Charlie smiled and went over. 

“Hi,” she said awkwardly, flicking her eyes at each of 
them but not fully making contact. Jessica scooted over on 
the red vinyl bench and patted the seat beside her. 

“Here, sit,” she said. “I was just telling John and Carlton 
about my glamorous life.” She rolled her eyes as she said it, 
managing to convey both self-deprecation and the sense 
that her life was truly something exciting. 


“Did you know Jessica lives in New York?” Carlton said. 
There was something careful about the way he spoke, like 
he was thinking about his words before he formed them. 
John was silent, but he smiled at Charlie anxiously. 

Jessica rolled her eyes again, and with a flash of déja vu 
Charlie suddenly recalled that this had been a habit even 
when they were children. 

“Eight million people live in New York, Carlton. It’s not 
exactly an achievement,” Jessica said. Carlton shrugged. 

“I’ve never been anywhere,” he said. 

“| didn’t Know you still lived in town,” Charlie said. 

“Where else am | going to live? My family has been here 
since 1896,” he added, deepening his voice to mimic his 
father. 

“Is that even true?” Charlie asked. 

“! don’t know,” Carlton said in his own register. “Could 
be. Dad ran for mayor two years ago. | mean, he lost, but 
still, who runs for mayor?” He made a face. “I Swear, the 
day | turn eighteen | am out of here.” 

“Where are you going to go?” John asked, looking 
seriously at Carlton. 

Carlton met his eyes, just as serious for a moment. 
Abruptly, he broke away and pointed out the window, 
closing one eye as if to get his aim true. John raised an 
eyebrow as he looked out the window, trying to follow the 
line Carlton was pointing to. Charlie looked, too. Carlton 
wasn’t pointing at anything. John opened his mouth to say 
something, but Carlton interrupted. 

“Or,” he said as he smoothly pointed in the opposite 
direction. 

“Okay.” John scratched his head, looking — slightly 
embarrassed. “Anywhere, right?” he added with a laugh. 


“Where’s everyone else?” Charlie asked, peering out the 
window and searching the parking lot for new arrivals. 

“Tomorrow,” John said. 

“They're coming tomorrow morning,” Jessica jumped in 
to clarify. “Marla’s bringing her litthe brother. Can you 
believe it?” 

“Jason?” Charlie smiled. She remembered Jason as a little 
bundle of blankets with a tiny red face peeking out. 

“I mean, who wants a baby around?” Jessica adjusted her 
hat primly. 

“I’m pretty sure he’s not a baby anymore,” Charlie said, 
stifling a laugh. 

“Practically a baby,” Jessica said. “Anyway, | booked us a 
room at the motel down by the highway. It was all | could 
find. The boys are staying with Carlton.” 

“Okay,” Charlie said. She was vaguely impressed by 
Jessica’s organization, but she wasn’t happy about the plan. 
She was loath to share a room with Jessica, who now 
seemed like a stranger. Jessica had become the kind of girl 
who intimidated her: polished and immaculate, speaking as 
though she had everything in life figured out. For a moment 
Charlie considered going back to her old house for the night, 
but as soon as she thought it, the idea repelled her. That 
house, at night, was no longer the province of the living. 
Don’t be dramatic, she scolded herself, but now John was 
speaking. He had a way of commanding attention with his 
voice, probably because he spoke less often than everyone 
else. He spent most of his time listening, but not out of 
reticence. He was gathering information, speaking only 
when he had wisdom or sarcasm to dispense. Often it was 
both at once. 

“Does anyone know what’s happening tomorrow?” 


They were all silent for a moment, and the waitress took 
the opportunity to come over for their order. Charlie flipped 
quickly through the menu, her eyes not really focusing on 
the words. Her turn to order came much faster than she was 
expecting, and she froze. 

“Um, eggs,” she said at last. The woman’s_ hard 
expression was still fixed on her, and she realized she had 
not finished. “Scrambled. Wheat toast,” she added, and the 
woman went away. Charlie looked back down at the menu. 
She hated this about herself. When she was caught off 
guard she seemed to lose all ability to act or process what 
was going on around her. People were incomprehensible, 
their demands alien. Ordering dinner shouldn't be hard, she 
thought. The others had begun their conversation again, 
and she turned her attention to them, feeling like she had 
fallen behind. 

“What do we even say to his parents?” Jessica was 
saying. 

“Carlton, do you ever see them?” Charlie asked. 

“Not really,” he said. “Around, | guess. Sometimes.” 

“I’m surprised they stayed in Hurricane,” Jessica said 
with a note of worldly disapproval in her voice. 

Charlie said nothing, but she thought, How could they 
not? 

His body had never been found. How could they not have 
secretly hoped he might come home, no matter how 
impossible they knew it was? How could they leave the only 
home Michael knew? It would mean really, finally giving up 
on him. Maybe that was what this scholarship was: an 
admission that he was never coming home. 

Charlie was acutely aware that they were in a public 
place, where talking about Michael felt inappropriate. They 


were, in a sense, both insiders and outsiders. They had been 
closer to Michael, probably more than anyone in this 
restaurant, but, with the exception of Carlton, they were no 
longer from Hurricane. They did not belong. 

She saw the tears falling on her paper placemat before 
She felt them, and she hurriedly wiped her eyes, looking 
down and hoping no one had noticed. When she looked up, 
John appeared to be studying his silverware, but she knew 
he had seen. She was grateful to him for not trying to offer 
comfort. 

“John, do you still write?” Charlie asked. 

John had declared himself “an author” when they were 
about six, having learned to read and write when he was 
four, a year ahead of the rest of them. At the age of seven, 
he completed his first “novel” and pressed his poorly 
spelled, inscrutably illustrated creation on his friends and 
family, demanding reviews. Charlie remembered that she 
had given him only two stars. 

John laughed at the question. “I actually do my Es the 
right way these days,” he said. “I can’t believe you 
remember that. But | do actually, yeah.” He stopped, clearly 
wanting to say more. 

“What do you write?” Carlton obliged, and John looked 
down at his placemat, speaking mostly to the table. 

“Um, short stories, mostly. | actually had one published 
last year. | mean, it was just in a magazine, nothing big.” 
They all made suitable noises of being impressed, and he 
looked up again, embarrassed but pleased. 

“What was the story about?” Charlie asked. 

John hesitated, but before he could speak or decide not 
to, the waitress returned with their food. They had all 
ordered from the breakfast menu: coffee, eggs, and bacon; 


blueberry pancakes for Carlton. The brightly colored food 
looked hopeful, like a fresh start to the day. Charlie took a 
bite of her toast, and they all ate silently for a moment. 

“Hey, Carlton,” John said suddenly. “What ever happened 
to Freddy’s anyway?” 

There was a brief hush. Carlton looked nervously at 
Charlie, and Jessica stared up at the ceiling. John flushed 
red, and Charlie spoke hastily. 

“It’s okay, Carlton. I’d like to know, too.” 

Carlton shrugged, stabbing at his pancakes nervously 
with his fork. 

“They built over it,” he said. 

“What did they build?” Jessica asked. 

“Is there something else there now? Was it built over, or 
just torn down?” John asked. Carlton shrugged again, quick, 
like a nervous tic. 

“Like | said, | don’t know. It’s too far back from the road 
to see, and | haven’t exactly investigated. It might have 
been leased to someone, but | don’t know what they did. It’s 
all been blocked off for years, under construction. You can’t 
even tell if the building is still there.” 

“So it could still be there?” Jessica asked with a spark of 
excitement breaking through. 

“Like | said, | don’t know,” Carlton answered. 

Charlie felt the diner’s fluorescent lights glaring down on 
her face, suddenly too bright. She felt exposed. She had 
barely eaten, but she found herself rising from the booth, 
pulling a few crumpled bills from her pocket, and dropping 
them on the table. 

“I’m going to go outside for a minute,” she said. “Smoke 
break,” she added hastily. You don’t smoke. She chided 
herself for the clumsy lie as she made her way to the door, 


jostling past a family of four without saying “excuse me,” 
and stepped out into the cool evening. She walked to her 
car and sat on the hood, the metal denting slightly under 
her weight. She took in breaths of the cool air as if it were 
water and closed her eyes. You knew it would come up. You 
knew you would have to talk about it, she reminded herself. 
She had practiced on the drive here, had forced herself to 
think back to happy memories, to smile and _ say, 
“Remember when?” She thought she was prepared for this. 
But of course she had been wrong. Why else would she have 
run out of the restaurant like a child? 

“Charlie?” 

She opened her eyes and saw John standing next to the 
car, holding her jacket out in front of him like an offering. 

“You forgot your jacket,” he said, and she made herself 
smile at him. 

“Thanks,” she said. She took it and draped it over her 
shoulders, then slid over on the car’s hood for him to sit. 

“Sorry about that,” she said. In the dim lights of the 
parking lot she could still see him blush to the ears. He 
joined her on the car’s hood, leaving a deliberate space 
between them. 

“| haven't learned to think before | talk. I’m sorry.” John 
watched the sky as a plane passed overhead. 

Charlie smiled, this time unforced. 

“It’s okay. | knew it was going to come up; it had to. | just 
—it sounds stupid, but | never think about it. | don’t let 
myself. No one knows what happened except my aunt, and 
we never talk about it. Then | come here, and suddenly it’s 
everywhere. | was just surprised, that’s all.” 

“Uh-oh.” John pointed, and Charlie saw Jessica and 
Carlton hesitating in the doorway of the diner. She waved 


them over, and they came. 

“Remember that time at Freddy’s when the merry-go- 
round got stuck, and Marla and that mean kid Billy had to 
keep riding it until their parents plucked them off?” Charlie 
said. 

John laughed, and the sound made her smile. 

“Their faces were bright red, crying like babies.” She 
covered her face, guilty that it was so funny to her. 

There was a brief, surprised silence, then Carlton started 
laughing. “Then Marla puked all over him!” 

“Sweet justice!” Charlie said. 

“Actually, | think it was nachos,” John added. 

Jessica wrinkled her nose. “So gross. | never rode it 
again, not after that.” 

“Oh, come on, Jessica, they cleaned it,” said Carlton. “I’m 
pretty sure kids puked all over that place; those wet floor 
signs weren’t there for nothing. Right, Charlie?” 

“Don’t look at me,” she said. “I never puked.” 

“We used to spend so much time there! Privileges of 
knowing the owner’s daughter,” Jessica said, looking at 
Charlie with mock accusation. 

“| couldn’t help who my dad was!” Charlie said, laughing. 

Jessica looked thoughtful for a moment before she 
continued. “I mean, how could you have a better childhood 
than spending all day at Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza?” 

“1 dunno,” said Carlton. “I think that music got to me 
over the years.” He hummed a few bars of the familiar song. 
Charlie dipped her head to it, recalling the tune. 

“I! loved those animals so much,” Jessica said suddenly. 
“What’s the proper term for them? Animals, robots, 
mascots?” 

“| think those are all accurate.” Charlie leaned back. 


“Well, anyway, | used to go and talk to the bunny, what 
was his name?” 

“Bonnie,” Charlie said. 

“Yeah,” said Jessica. “| used to complain to him about my 
parents. | always thought he had an understanding look 
about him.” 

Carlton laughed. “Animatronic therapy! Recommended 
by six out of seven crazy people.” 

“Shut up,” Jessica retorted. “I knew he wasn’t real. | just 
liked talking to him.” 

Charlie smiled a little. “Il remember that,” she said. 
Jessica in her prim little dresses, her brown hair in two tight 
braids like a little kid out of an old book, walking up to the 
stage when the show was over, whispering earnestly to the 
life-size animatronic rabbit. If anyone came up beside her, 
she went instantly silent and still, waiting for them to go 
away so she could resume her one-sided conversations. 
Charlie had never talked to the animals at her father’s 
restaurant or felt close to them like some kids seemed to; 
although she liked them, they belonged to the public. She 
had her own toys, mechanical friends waiting for her at 
home, that belonged only to her. 

“I liked Freddy,” said John. “He always seemed the most 
relatable.” 

“You know, there are a lot of things about my childhood 
that | can’t remember at all,” Carlton said, “but | swear | can 
close my eyes and see every last detail of that place. Even 
the gum | used to stick under the tables.” 

“Gum? Yeah, right; those were boogers.” Jessica took a 
tiny step away from Carlton. 

He grinned. “| was seven; what do you want? You all 
picked on me back then. Remember when Marla wrote 


‘Carlton smells like feet’ on the wall outside?” 

“You did smell like feet.” Jessica laughed with a sudden 
outburst. 

Carlton shrugged, unperturbed. “I used to try to hide 
when it was time to go home. | wanted to be stuck in there 
overnight so | could have the whole place to myself.” 

“Yeah, you always kept everyone waiting,” said John, 
“and you always hid under the same table.” 

Charlie spoke slowly, and when she did everyone turned 
to her, as though they had been waiting. 

“Sometimes | feel like | remember every inch of it, like 
Carlton,” she said. “But sometimes it’s like | hardly 
remember it at all. It’s all in pieces. Like, | remember the 
carousel, and that time it got stuck. | remember drawing on 
the placemats. | remember little things: eating that greasy 
pizza, hugging Freddy in the summer and his yellow fur 
getting stuck all over my clothes. But a lot of it is like 
pictures, like it happened to someone else.” 

They were all looking at her oddly. 

“Freddy was brown, right?” Jessica looked to the others 
for confirmation. 

“I! guess you really don’t remember it that well after all,” 
Carlton teased Charlie, and she laughed briefly. 

“Right. | meant brown,” she said. Brown, Freddy was 
brown. Of course he was; she could see him in her mind 
now. But somewhere in the depths of her recall, there was a 
flash of something else. 

Carlton launched into another story, and Charlie tried to 
turn her attention to him, but there was something 
disturbing, worrisome, about that lapse in memory. /t was 
ten years ago, it’s not like you’ve got dementia at 
seventeen, she told herself, but it was such a basic detail to 


have misremembered. Out of the corner of her eye, she 
caught John looking at her, a pensive expression on his face, 
as though she had said something important. 

“You really don’t Know what happened to it?” she asked 
Carlton with more urgency in her voice than she intended. 
He stopped talking, surprised. “Sorry,” she said. “Sorry, | 
didn’t mean to interrupt you.” 

“It’s okay,” he said. “But yeah—or no, | really don’t know 
what happened.” 

“How can you not know? You live here.” 

“Charlie, come on,” said John. 

“It’s not like | hang around that part of town. Things are 
different; the town has grown,” Carlton said mildly, seeming 
unruffled by her outburst. “And | honestly don’t look for 
reasons to go around there, you know? Why would |? There 
isn’t any reason, not anymore.” 

“We could go there,” John said suddenly, and Charlie’s 
heart skipped. 

Carlton looked nervously at Charlie. “What? Seriously, it’s 
a mess. | don’t know if you can even get to it.” 

Charlie found herself nodding. She felt as though she had 
spent the whole day weighed down by memory, seeing 
everything through a filter of years, and now she felt 
suddenly alert, her mind fully present. She wanted to go. 

“Let’s do it,” she said. “Even if there’s nothing there. | 
want to see.” They were all silent. Suddenly, John smiled 
with a reckless confidence. 

“Yeah. Let’s do it.” 





Charlie pulled to a stop, feeling the soft give of dirt under 
her tires, and turned off the car. She got out and surveyed 
their surroundings. The sky was a rich, dark blue, the last 
trails of the sunset streaking off to the west. The parking lot 
was unpaved, and before them lay a sprawling monster of a 
building, a rising acre of glass and concrete. There were 
lamps in the parking lot that had never been used, and no 
lights shone out onto the lot. The building itself looked like 
an abandoned sanctuary, entombed in black trees amid the 
distant roar of civilization. She looked at Jessica in the 
passenger seat, who was craning her neck out the window. 

“Is this the right place?” Jessica asked. 

Charlie shook her head slowly, not quite certain what she 
was seeing. “I don’t know,” she whispered. 


Charlie got out of the car and stood in silence as John 
and Carlton pulled up beside her. 

“What is this?” John stepped out of the car cautiously 
and stared blankly at the monument. “Does anyone have a 
flashlight?” He looked at each of them. 

Carlton held up his key chain and waved around the 
feeble glow of a penlight for a minute. 

“Great,” John muttered, walking away with resignation. 

“Hold on a sec,” Charlie said and went around to her 
trunk. “My aunt makes me carry around a bunch of stuff for 
emergencies.” 

Aunt Jen, loving but severe, had taught Charlie self- 
reliance above almost anything else. Before she let Charlie 
have her old blue Honda, she had insisted that Charlie know 
how to change a tire, check the oil, and know the basic 
parts of the engine. In the trunk, in a black box tucked in 
next to the jack, spare tire, and small crowbar; she had a 
blanket, a heavy police-issue flashlight, bottled water, 
granola bars, matches, and emergency flares. Charlie 
grabbed the flashlight; Carlton grabbed a granola bar. 

Almost by silent agreement, they began to walk the 
building’s perimeter, Charlie holding up the light in a steady 
beam in front of them. The building itself looked mostly 
finished, but the ground was all dirt and rock, uneven and 
soft. Charlie shone the light on the ground, where grass had 
grown patchy in the dirt, inches long. 

“No one has been digging for a while,” Charlie said. 

The place was massive, and it took a long time to 
circumnavigate. It wasn’t long before the rich blue of the 
evening was overtaken by a blanket of scattered silver 
clouds and stars. The surfaces of the building were all the 


Same smooth, beige concrete, with windows too high up on 
the walls to see inside. 

“Did they really build this whole thing and then just 
leave?” Jessica said. 

“Carlton,” said John, “you really don’t know anything 
about what happened?” 

Carlton shrugged expansively. “I told you, | knew there 
was construction, but | don’t know anything else.” 

“Why would they do this?” John seemed almost paranoid, 
scouting the trees as though eyes might be looking back at 
him. “It just goes on and on.” He squinted, gazing along the 
outside wall of the building, which seemed to stretch 
endlessly into the distance. He glanced back to the trees as 
if making sure they hadn’t missed a building somehow. “No, 
it was here.” He placed his hand on the drab concrete 
facing. “It’s gone.” 

After a moment, he gestured to the others and began to 
walk back the way they came. Reluctantly, Charlie turned 
back, following the group. They kept going until they could 
see their cars again up ahead in the darkness. 

“Sorry, guys; | hoped there would at least be something 
familiar,” Carlton said exhaustedly. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. She had known it would be, but 
seeing that Freddy’s had been razed to the ground was still 
a shock. It was so paramount, sometimes, in her mind, that 
she wanted to get rid of it, wanted to scrub the memories— 
good and bad—from her head, as if they had never been. 
Now someone had scrubbed it from the landscape, and it 
felt like a violation. It should have been up to her. Right, she 
thought, because you had the money to buy it and preserve 
it, like Aunt Jen did with the house. 


“Charlie?” John was saying her name, and it sounded like 
he was repeating it. 

“Sorry,” she said. “What were you saying?” 

“Do you want to go inside?” Jessica asked. 

Charlie was surprised they were only now considering 
this, but then again none of them was usually prone to 
criminal activity. The thought was a release, and she took a 
deep breath, speaking on her exhale. “Why not?” she said, 
almost laughing. She hefted the flashlight. Her arms were 
getting tired. “Anyone else want a turn?” She waved it back 
and forth like a pendulum. 

Carlton grabbed it and took a moment to appreciate its 
weight. 

“Why is this so heavy?” he said, passing it off to John. 
“Here you go.” 

“It’s a police flashlight,” Charlie said absently. “You can 
hit people with it.” 

Jessica wrinkled her nose. “Your aunt really wasn’t 
kidding around, huh? Ever used it?” 

“Not yet.” Charlie winked and made a half-threatening 
glance at John, who returned an uncertain half smile, unsure 
how to react. 

The wide entrances were sealed with hammered metal 
doors, no doubt intended to be temporary until construction 
was finished. Still, it wasn’t difficult to find a way in, since 
many large mounds of gravel and sand scaled the walls, 
leading right up to the edges of the large, gaping windows. 

“Not trying hard to keep people out,” John said. 

“What's anyone going to steal?” Charlie said, staring at 
the blank, towering walls. 

They climbed the hills slowly, the gravel shifting and 
Sliding beneath their feet as they went. Carlton reached the 


window first and peered through. Jessica looked over his 
shoulder. 

“Can we drop down?” John asked. 

“Yes,” said Carlton. 

“No,” Jessica said at precisely the same time. 

“I'll go,” Charlie said. She felt reckless. Without looking 
through to see how far the fall was, she put her feet through 
the opening and let herself drop. She landed, knees bent; 
the impact rocked her, but it did not hurt. She looked up at 
her friends staring down. “Oh. Hang on!” Charlie called, 
pulling a short stepladder from a wall nearby and setting it 
under the window. “Okay,” she said. “Come on!” 

They dropped down one by one, and looked around 
them. Inside was an atrium, or maybe it would have become 
a food court, with metal benches and plastic tables 
scattered around, some bolted to the floor. The ceiling rose 
up high above them, with a glass roof where they could see 
the stars peering down at them. 

“Very postapocalyptic,” Charlie joked, her voice echoing 
in the open space. 

Jessica sang a brief, wordless scale suddenly, startling 
them all into silence. Her voice rang out pure and clear, 
something beautiful in the emptiness. 

“Very nice, but let’s not call too much attention to 
ourselves,” John said. 

“Right,” Jessica said, still very happy with herself. As they 
walked on, Carlton swept up and took her arm. 

“Your voice is amazing,” he said. 

“It’s just good acoustics,” Jessica said, attempting 
humility but not meaning a word of it. 

They walked the empty halls, peering into each of the 
massive cavities where a department store might have 


been. Some parts of the mall had been almost finished, 
while others were in shambles. Some hallways were littered 
with piles of dusty concrete bricks and stacks of wood; 
others were lined with glass-paneled storefronts, lights 
hanging in perfect rows above their heads. 

“It’s like a lost city,” John said. 

“Like Pompeii,” said Jessica, “just without the volcano.” 

“No,” Charlie said, “there’s nothing here.” The whole 
place had a sterile feel to it. It was not abandoned—it had 
never sustained life at all. 

She looked in a store window across from her, one of the 
few with glass, wondering what would have been displayed. 
She imagined mannequins, dressed in bright clothing, but 
when she tried to picture them, all she could see was blank 
faces, concealing something. She suddenly felt out of place, 
unwelcomed by the building itself. Charlie began to feel 
restless, some of the luster wearing off the adventure. They 
had come; Freddy’s was gone, and so was the shrine she 
had kept in her thoughts, where she could still find Michael 
playing where she last saw him. 

John stopped suddenly, turning off the flashlight as 
carefully as he could. He put a finger to his lips, motioning 
for silence. He gestured back the way they had come. In the 
distance, they saw a small light bobbing in the darkness like 
a ship in the fog. 

“Someone else is here,” he hissed. 

“A night guard, maybe?” Carlton whispered. 

“Why would an abandoned building need a guard?” 
Charlie wondered. 

“Kids probably come here to party,” Carlton said, then 
grinned. “I would have come here to party, too, if I'd known 
about it, or if | partied.” 


“Okay, well, let’s backtrack slowly,” John said. “Jessica 
...” he started, then made a zip-it motion across his lips. 

They continued down the hallway, this time with only the 
dimmer light of Carlton’s key chain. 

“Wait.” Jessica stopped with a whisper, looking intently at 
the walls surrounding them. “Something’s not right.” 

“Yeah, no giant pretzels. | know.” Carlton seemed 
sincere. Jessica waved a hand at him impatiently. 

“No, something isn’t right about the architecture.” She 
took several steps back, trying to see the whole of it. 
“Something is definitely not right,” she repeated. “It’s 
bigger on the outside.” 

“Bigger on the outside?” Charlie repeated, sounding 
puzzled. 

“| mean there’s a big difference between where the 
inside wall is and where the outside wall is. Look.” Jessica 
ran along a length of wall between where two stores would 
have been. 

“There would have been a store here and a store there.” 
John pointed to the obvious, not understanding the problem. 

“But there’s something in the middle!” Jessica exclaimed, 
beating her hands against an empty portion of the wall. 
“This part juts out into the parking lot like the stores on 
each side, but there’s no way into it.” 

“You're right.” Charlie started walking toward Jessica, 
studying the walls. “There should be another entrance 
here.” 

“And”—Jessica dropped her voice so that only Charlie 
could hear her—“about the same size as Freddy’s, don’t you 
think?” Charlie’s eyes widened, and she took a quick step 
back from Jessica. 


“What are you two whispering about?” Carlton stepped 
closer. 

“We're talking about you,” Jessica said sharply, and they 
walked into one of the vacant department stores that 
seemed to sandwich the sealed space. “Come on,” she said, 
“let’s take a look.” They started combing the wall as a 
group, clustered around the tiny light. 

Charlie was not sure what to hope for. Aunt Jen had 
warned her about coming back. She didn’t encourage 
Charlie to skip the memorial, not directly, but she wasn’t 
pleased that Charlie was returning to Hurricane. 

Just be careful, Aunt Jen had said. Some things, some 
memories, are best left undisturbed. 

Is that why you kept Dad’s house? Charlie thought now. 
Is that why you kept paying for it, leaving it untouched like 
some kind of shrine, but never visiting? 

“Hey!” John was gesturing wildly, running inside to catch 
up to the rest of them. “Hide!” 

The light was out in the hall again, bobbing up and down, 
and it was coming closer. Charlie glanced around. They were 
already too deep inside the massive store to get out in time, 
and there seemed to be nowhere to hide. 

“Here, here!” Jessica whispered. There was a break in the 
wall beside a rig of scaffolding, and they hurried into it, 
squeezing past stacks of open boxes and sheets of plastic 
hanging from the ceiling. 

They made their way down what appeared to be a 
makeshift hallway just on the other side of the department 
Store wall. It was really more like an alley; it was 
incongruous with the rest of the mall, not shiny and new but 
dank and musty. One wall was made of the same concrete 
as the outside of the building, though it was rough and 


unfinished, and the other was exposed brick, some parts 
faded smooth with age, others with the mortar crumbling, 
leaving chinks and holes. Heavy wooden shelves of cleaning 
equipment stood against the wall, listing to the side, their 
boards sinking under the weight of old paint cans and 
mysterious buckets. Something was dripping from 
uncovered pipes overhead, leaving puddles that they all 
stepped carefully around. A mouse scuttled by, almost 
running over Carlton’s foot. Carlton made a_ strangled 
sound, hand over his mouth. 

They crouched down behind one of the wooden shelving 
units, pressing up against the wall. Charlie doused the light 
and waited. 

She took shallow breaths, perfectly still, watching and 
wishing she had picked a better position to freeze into. After 
a few minutes, her legs started to feel numb under her, and 
Carlton was so close that she could smell the light, pleasant 
scent of his shampoo. “That’s nice,” she whispered. 

“Thanks,” Carlton said, knowing immediately what she 
was referring to. “It comes in Ocean Breeze and Tropical 
Paradise. | prefer Ocean Breeze, but it dries the scalp.” 

“Hush!” John hissed. 

Charlie wasn’t sure why she was so worried. It was just a 
night guard, and at the worst they would be asked to leave, 
maybe yelled at a little. She had an overblown aversion to 
getting in trouble. 

The bobbing light came closer. Charlie was acutely aware 
of her body, holding every muscle motionless. Suddenly she 
could make out a thin figure leaning in from the great room 
outside. He shone his light in a long beam down the hallway, 
sweeping it up and down the walls. He’s got us, Charlie 


thought, but inexplicably he turned and went, apparently 
satisfied. 

They waited another few minutes, but there was nothing. 
He was gone. They all moved slowly out of their crouched 
positions, stretching limbs that had gone to sleep. Carlton 
shook one foot vigorously until he could stand on it. Charlie 
looked down at Jessica, who was still hunched over, as if 
frozen in time. 

“Jessica, are you Okay?” she whispered. 

Jessica looked up, smiling. 

“You won't believe this.” 

She was pointing at the wall, and Charlie leaned over to 
see. There, etched in the worn brick, were clumsy letters, 
almost illegible in a child’s handiwork: 

Carlton smells like feet. 

“You have to be kidding me,” John whispered in awe, 
turning to face the wall and placing both hands against it. “1 
recognize these bricks.” He laughed. “These are the same 
bricks!” His smile faded. “They didn’t tear it down; they built 
around it.” 

“It’s still here!” Jessica unsuccessfully tried to keep her 
voice down. “There has to be a way in,” she added, her eyes 
wide with an almost childish excitement. 

Charlie shone the flashlight up and down the hallway, 
playing the light off each wall, but there was no break, no 
door. 

“There was a back door to Freddy’s,” John said. “Marla 
wrote that right next to the back door, right?” 

“Why didn’t they just knock it down?” Charlie pondered. 

“Does this hallway just lead nowhere?” Jessica said, 
puzzled. 

“It’s the story of my life,” Carlton said lightly. 


“Wait ...” Charlie ran her fingers along the edge of a 
Shelf, peering through the odds and ends crammed onto it. 
The wall behind it looked different; it was metal, not brick. 
“Right here.” She stepped back and looked at the others. 
“Help me move it.” 

John and Jessica pressed against one side in a unified 
effort, and she and Carlton pulled on the other. It was 
immensely heavy, laden with cleaning supplies and large 
buckets of nails and tools, but it slid farther down the hall 
almost easily, without incident. 

Jessica stepped back, breathing hard. “John, give me the 
big light again.” He handed it over, and she turned it back 
on, aiming where the shelf had stood. “This is it,” she said. 

It was metal and rusting, spattered with paint, a stark 
contrast to the walls around it. There was only a hole where 
the handle had been; someone must have removed it so the 
Shelf could lie flush against the door. 

Silently Charlie handed the flashlight back to John, and 
he held it above her head so she could see. She slipped 
around the others and tried to squeeze her fingers into the 
hole where the doorknob once was, trying to pull it open to 
no avail. 

“It’s not going to open, 
peering over her shoulder. 

“Just a second.” He squeezed himself into the space 
beside her and knelt carefully. “I don’t think it’s locked or 
anything,” he said. “I think it’s just rusty. Look at it.” 

The door extended all the way to the floor, its bottom 
ragged and unfinished. The hinges were on the other side, 
and the edges were caked in rust. It looked as though it had 
not been opened in years. John and Charlie pulled on it 
together, and it moved a fraction of an inch. 


” 


she said. John was behind her, 


“Yay!” Jessica exclaimed, almost shouting, then covered 
her mouth. “Sorry,” she said in a whisper. “Containing my 
excitement.” 

They took turns pulling on it, leaning over one another, 
the metal scraping their fingers. The door held for a long 
moment, and then it came loose under their weight, 
swinging open slowly with an unearthly screech. Charlie 
looked nervously over her shoulder, but the guard did not 
appear. The door opened only about a foot wide, and they 
went one by one, until all four were through. 

Inside, the air changed, and they all stopped short. 
Ahead of them was a dark hallway, familiar to them all. 

“Is this ... ?” Jessica whispered, not taking her eyes from 
the dark expanse. 

It’s here, Charlie thought. She held out her hand for the 
flashlight, and John handed it to her wordlessly. She shone 
the light ahead of them, sweeping the walls. They were 
covered in children’s drawings, crayon on yellowing, curling 
paper. She started forward, and the others followed, feet 
shuffling on old tile. 

It seemed to take forever to traverse the hall, or perhaps 
it was just that they were moving slowly, with methodical, 
deliberate steps. Eventually the hallway opened up into a 
larger expanse—the dining room. It was just as they 
remembered it, completely preserved. The flashlight beam 
bounced off a thousand little things reflective, glittered, or 
topped with foil ribbon. 

The tables were still in place, covered in their silver-and- 
white checked cloths; the chairs were pulled up to them 
haphazardly, some tables with too many and others with too 
few. It looked as though the room had been abandoned in 
the middle of the lunch hour: Everyone had gotten up 


expecting to return, but never did. They walked in 
cautiously, breathing cold, stale air that had been trapped 
inside for a decade. The whole restaurant gave off a sense 
of abandonment—no one was coming back. There was a 
Small merry-go-round barely visible in the distant corner, 
with four child-size ponies still at rest from their last song. In 
an instant, Charlie froze in place, as did the others. 

There they were. Eyes stared back from the dark, large 
and lifeless. An illogical panic pulsed through her; time held 
still. No one spoke; no one breathed, as though a predatory 
animal was stalking them. But as the moments passed, the 
fear waned, until she was back again, as a child, and with 
old friends, separated from one another for far too long. 
Charlie walked toward the eyes in a Straight line. Behind her 
the others were motionless; hers were the only footsteps. As 
Charlie walked, she touched the cold back of an old party 
chair without looking at it, guiding it out of her path. She 
took one final step, and the eyes in the dark became clear. 
It was them. Charlie smiled. 

“Hi,” she whispered, too soft for the others to hear. 

Before her stood three animatronic animals: a bear, a 
rabbit, and a chicken, all standing as tall as adults, maybe 
taller. Their bodies were segmented like artists’ models, 
each limb made of distinct, squarish pieces, separate at the 
joints. They belonged to the restaurant, or maybe the 
restaurant belonged to them, and there had been a time 
when everyone knew them by name. There was Bonnie, the 
rabbit. His fur was a bright blue, his squared-off muzzle held 
a permanent smile, and his wide and chipped pink eyes 
were thick-lidded, giving him a_ perpetually worn-out 
expression. His ears stuck up straight, crinkling over at the 
top, and his large feet splayed out for balance. He held a red 


bass guitar, blue paws poised to play, and around his neck 
was a bow tie that matched the instrument’s fiery color. 

Chica the Chicken was more bulky and had an 
apprehensive look, thick black eyebrows arching over her 
purple eyes and her beak slightly open, revealing teeth, as 
She held out a cupcake on a platter. The cupcake itself was 
somewhat disturbing, with eyes set into its pink frosting and 
teeth hanging out over the cake, a single candle sticking out 
the top. 

“l always expected the cupcake to jump off the plate.” 
Carlton gave a half laugh and cautiously stepped up to 
Charlie’s side. “They seem taller than | remember,” he 
added in a whisper. 

“That’s because you never got this close as a kid.” 
Charlie smiled, at ease, and stepped closer. 

“You were busy hiding under tables,” Jessica said from 
behind them, still some distance away. 

Chica wore a bib around her neck with the words LET’s EAT! 
set out in purple and yellow against a confetti-covered 
background. A tuft of feathers stuck up in the middle of her 
head. 

Standing between Bonnie and Chica was Freddy Fazbear 
himself, namesake of the restaurant. He was the most 
genial looking of the three, seeming at ease where he was. 
A robust, if lean, brown bear, he smiled down at the 
audience, holding a microphone in one paw, sporting a 
black bow tie and top hat. The only incongruity in his 
features was the color of his eyes, a bright blue that surely 
no bear had ever had before him. His mouth hung open, and 
his eyes were partially closed, as though he had been frozen 
in song. 


Carlton drew closer to the stage until his knees pressed 
against the rim of it. “Hey, Freddy,” he whispered. “Long 
time no see.” 

He reached out and grabbed at the microphone, wiggling 
it to see if he could get it loose. 

“Don’t!” Charlie blurted, looking up into Freddy’s fixed 
gaze as though making sure he hadn't noticed. 

Carlton pulled his hand back like he had touched 
something hot. “Sorry.” 

“Come on,” John said, cracking a smile. “Don’t you want 
to see the rest of the place?” 

They spread out across the room, peering into corners 
and carefully trying doors, acting as though everything 
might be breakable to the touch. John went over to the 
small carousel, and Carlton disappeared into the dark 
arcade off the main room. 

“| remember it being a lot brighter and noisier in here.” 
Carlton smiled as though at home again, running his hands 
over the aging knobs and flat plastic buttons. “| wonder if 
my high scores are still in there,” he muttered to himself. 

To the left of the stage was a small hallway. Half hoping 
no one would notice where she had gone, Charlie started 
down it silently as the others occupied themselves with their 
own curiosities. At the end of the short, plain corridor was 
her father’s office. It had been Charlie’s favorite place in the 
restaurant. She liked to play with her friends in the main 
area, but she loved the singular privilege of coming back 
here when her father was doing paperwork. She paused 
outside the closed door, her hand poised over the knob, 
remembering. Most of the room was filled with his desk, his 
filing cabinets, and small boxes of uninteresting parts. In 
one corner was a smaller filing cabinet, painted a salmon 


color that Charlie had always insisted was pink. That had 
been Charlie’s. The bottom drawer held toys and crayons, 
and the top had what she liked to call “my paperwork.” It 
was mostly coloring books and drawings, but occasionally 
she would go over to her father’s desk and try to copy down 
whatever he was writing in a childish, crayoned hand. 
Charlie tried the door, but it was locked. Better this way, she 
thought. The office was personal, and she did not really 
want it opened tonight. 

She headed back into the main dining room and found 
John looking pensively at the merry-go-round. He eyed her 
with curiosity but did not ask where she had gone. 

“| used to love this thing.” Charlie smiled, approaching 
warmly. Yet now the painted figures seemed odd and lifeless 
to her. 

John made a face, as though he knew what she was 
thinking. 

“Not the same,” he said. He rubbed his hand over the top 
of a polished pony as though to scratch it behind the ear. 
“Just not the same,” he repeated, removing his hand and 
gazing elsewhere. Charlie glanced over to see where the 
others were—in the arcade, she could see Jessica and 
Carlton wandering among the games. 

The consoles stood still and unlit like massive 
tombstones, their screens blank. “I never liked playing the 
games,” Jessica said, smiling. “They moved too fast, and 
just when I'd start to figure out what to do, I’d die and it 
would be someone else’s turn.” She wiggled a joystick that 
squeaked from neglect. 

“They were rigged anyway,” Carlton said with a wink. 

“When’s the last time you played one of these?” Jessica 
asked, peering closely into one of the screens to see what 


image was burned into it from too many years of use. 
Carlton was busy rocking a pinball machine back and forth, 
trying to get a ball to come loose. 

“Uh, there’s a pizza place | visit sometimes.” He set the 
table back on four legs carefully and glanced at Jessica. “But 
it’s no Freddy’s,” he added. 

John was roaming through the dining room again amid 
the tables, flicking the stars and spirals hanging overhead. 
He plucked a red party hat from the table, stretched the 
rubber band hanging loosely from its base, and snapped it 
around his head, red-and-white tassels hanging down over 
his face. 

“Oh, let’s check out the kitchen,” he said. Charlie 
followed as he bounded off toward it. 

Although the kitchen had been off-limits to her friends, 
she’d spent a lot of time there, so much so that the chefs 
chased her out by name, or at least by the name they heard 
her father call her: Charlotte. John overheard someone 
calling her Charlotte one day when they were in 
kindergarten and persisted in teasing her with it constantly. 
He could always get a rise out of her with that. It wasn’t that 
Charlie didn’t like her full name, but Charlie was who she 
was to the world. Her father called her Charlotte, and it was 
like a secret between them, something no one else was 
allowed to share. The day she left Hurricane for good, the 
day they said good-bye, John had hesitated. 

“Bye, Charlie,” he said. In their cards, letters, and phone 
calls, he had never called her Charlotte again. She never 
asked why, and he never told her. 

The kitchen was still fully stocked with pots and pans, but 
it held little interest for Charlie in the midst of her 
memories. She headed back out into the open space of the 


dining room, and John followed. At the same time, Jessica 
and Carlton stumbled out of the arcade, tripping into each 
other as they crossed the thresholds between rooms in the 
dark. 

“Anything interesting?” John asked. 

“Uh, a gum wrapper, thirty cents, and Jessica, so no, not 
really,” Carlton said. Jessica playfully gave him a punch in 
the shoulder. 

“Oh, have we all forgotten?” Jessica gave an evil smile, 
pointing to another hallway on the opposite side of the 
dining room. She headed toward it swiftly before anyone 
could answer, and they followed her. The hallway was long 
and narrow, and the farther they went, the less the 
flashlight seemed to illuminate. At last the passage opened 
out into a small room for private parties, set up with its own 
tables and chairs. As they entered, there was a collective 
hush. There in front of them was a small stage, the curtain 
drawn. A sign was strung across the front. OUT OF ORDER, it 
read in neat, handwritten letters. They stood still for a 
minute, then Jessica went up to it and poked the sign. 

“Pirate’s Cove,” she said. “Ten years later and it’s still out 
of order.” 

Don’t touch it, Charlie thought. 

“| had one birthday back here,” John said. “It was out of 
order then, too.” He took hold of the edge of the curtain and 
rubbed the glittered fabric between his fingers. 

No, Charlie wanted to say again, but stopped. You’re 
being silly, she chided herself. 

“Do you think he’s still back there?” Jessica said playfully, 
threatening to make the reveal with one giant swing on the 
curtain. 


“I’m sure he is.” John gave a false smile, seeming 
uncomfortable for the first time. 

Yes, he’s still there, Charlie thought. She stepped back 
cautiously, suddenly becoming aware of the drawings and 
posters surrounding them like spiders on the wall. Charlie’s 
flashlight carefully inched from picture to picture, all 
depicting different variations of the same character: a large 
and energetic pirate fox with a patch over one eye and a 
hook for a hand, usually swinging in to deliver a pizza to 
hungry children. 

“This is the room where you were the one hiding under 
tables,” Jessica said to Charlie, trying to laugh. “But you’re a 
big girl now, right?” Jessica climbed up on the stage 
unsteadily, almost losing her footing. John reached out a 
hand to steady her as she righted herself. She giggled 
nervously, looking down at the others as though for 
guidance, than grabbed hold of the tasseled edge of the 
fabric. She waved her other hand in front of her face as dust 
fell from the cloth. 

“Maybe this isn’t a good idea?” She laughed, but there 
was an edge to her voice, like she really meant it, and she 
looked down at the stage for a moment, as though poised to 
climb back down. Still, she didn’t move, taking the edge of 
the curtain again. 

“Wait,” John said. “Can you hear that?” 

They were all dead quiet, and in the silence Charlie could 
hear them all breathing. John’s breaths were deliberate and 
calm, Jessica’s quick and nervous. As she thought about it, 
her own breathing began to feel odd, like she had forgotten 
how to do it. 

“| don’t hear anything,” she said. 

“Me neither,” Jessica echoed. “What is it?” 


“Music. It’s coming from—” He gestured back the way 
they had come. 

“From the stage?” Charlie cocked her head to the side. “1 
don’t hear it.” 

“It’s like a music box,” he said. Charlie and Jessica 
listened carefully, but their blank expressions didn’t change. 
“It stopped, | guess.” John returned his gaze forward. 

“Maybe it was an ice cream truck,” Jessica whispered. 

“Hey, that wouldn’t be so bad right now.” John 
appreciated the levity. 

Jessica turned her attention back to the curtain, but John 
began to hum a tune to himself. “It reminded me of 
something,” he mumbled. 

“Okay, here | go!” Jessica announced. She did not move. 
Charlie found her eyes drawn to Jessica’s hand on the 
curtain, her pink, manicured nails pale against the dark, 
glittery fabric. It was almost like the hushed moment in a 
theater crowd, when the lights went dark but the curtain 
had not yet risen. They were all still, all anticipating, but 
they were not watching a play, no longer playing a game. All 
the mirth had gone out of Jessica’s face; her cheekbones 
stood out stark in the shadows, and her eyes looked grim as 
though the simple thing she was about to do might be of 
terrible consequence. As Jessica hesitated, Charlie realized 
her hand hurt; she was making a fist so tight her nails dug 
into her flesh, but she could not force her grip to loosen. 

A crash sounded from back the way they came, a 
cascading, clanging noise ringing out and filling the whole 
Space. John and Charlie froze, meeting each other’s eyes in 
sudden panic. Jessica dropped the curtain and leaped off the 
stage, bumping into Charlie and knocking the light out of 
her hands. 


“Where’s the way out?!” she exclaimed, and John came 
over to help. They hurriedly searched the walls, and Charlie 
chased the light beam spiraling across the floor. Just as they 
were all back to their feet, Carlton came trotting in. 

“l knocked over a bunch of pots in the kitchen!” he 
exclaimed, an apology amid the panic. 

“| thought you were with us,” Charlie said. 

“! wanted to see if there was any food left,” Carlton said, 
not making it clear if he’d found anything or not. 

“Seriously?” John laughed. 

“That guard might have heard,” Jessica said anxiously. 
“We have to get out of here.” 

They started for the door, and Jessica started running. 
The rest took off after her, picking up speed as they reached 
the hallway until they were racing as though something 
were behind them. 

“Run, run!” John called out, and they all burst into 
giggles, the panic feigned but the urgency real. 

They squeezed back through the door one by one and 
pushed it shut with the same painful squeal, Carlton and 
John leaning on it until it sealed. They all took hold of the 
Shelf, hefting it back into place and replacing the tools so 
that it appeared undisturbed. 

“Look good?” Jessica said, and John tugged her arm, 
guiding her away. 

They made their way quickly but carefully back the way 
they came using only Carlton’s penlight, back through the 
empty hallways and the open atrium to the parking lot. The 
guard’s light did not appear again. 

“Little anticlimactic,” Carlton said with disappointment, 
checking back one more time in hopes they were being 
chased. 


“Are you kidding?” Charlie said as she went to her car, 
already pulling the keys free from her pocket. She felt as 
though something locked deep inside her had been 
disturbed, and she was not sure if that was a good thing or 
not. 

“That was fun!” John exclaimed, and Jessica laughed. 

“That was terrifying!” she cried. 

“It can be both,” Carlton said, grinning widely. Charlie 
began to laugh, and John joined in. 

“What?” Jessica said. Charlie shook her head, still 
laughing a little. 

“It’s just ... we’re all exactly the same as we were. | 
mean, we’re totally different and older and everything. But 
we’re the same. You and Carlton sound exactly like you did 
when we were Six.” 

“Right,” Jessica said, rolling her eyes again, but John 
nodded. 

“| Know what you mean,” he said. “And so does Jessica, 
She just doesn’t like to admit it.” He glanced back at the 
mall. “Is everybody sure that guard didn’t see us?” 

“We can outrun him now,” Carlton said reasonably, his 
hand resting on the car. 

“| guess,” John said, but he did not sound convinced. 

“You haven't changed, either, you know,” Jessica said 
with a certain satisfaction. “Stop looking for problems where 
there aren’t any.” 

“Still,” John said, glancing back again. “We should get out 
of here. | don’t want to push our luck.” 

“See you all tomorrow, then?” Jessica said as they parted 
ways. Carlton gave a little wave over his shoulder. 

Charlie’s heart sank a little as Jessica settled herself into 
the passenger seat, tidily buckling herself in. She had not 


been looking forward to this. It wasn’t that she didn’t like 
Jessica, just that being alone with her was uncomfortable. 
She still wasn’t much more than a stranger. Yet Charlie was 
still exhilarated from the night’s adventure, and the 
lingering adrenaline gave her a new confidence. She smiled 
at Jessica. After tonight, they suddenly had something very 
much in common. 

“Do you know which way the motel is?” she asked, and 
Jessica nodded and reached for the purse down at her feet. 
It was small and black with a long strap, and on the drive to 
the construction site Charlie had already seen her remove a 
lip gloss, a mirror, a pack of breath mints, a sewing kit, and 
a tiny hairbrush. Now she pulled out a small notebook and 
pen. Charlie smiled. 

“Sorry, how much stuff do you have in that thing?” she 
asked, and Jessica looked at her with a grin. 

“The secrets of The Purse must not be disclosed,” she 
said playfully, and they both laughed. Jessica started 
reading Charlie the directions, and Charlie obeyed, turning 
left and right without paying much attention to her 
surroundings. 


Jessica had already checked in, so they went straight to 
their room, a small beige box of a room with two double 
beds covered in shiny brown spreads. Charlie set her bags 
on the bed closest to the door, and Jessica went to the 
window. 

“AS you can see, | splurged on the room with the view,” 
she said and flung the curtains open dramatically to reveal 


two Dumpsters and a dried-out hedge. “I want to have my 
wedding here.” 

“Right,” Charlie said, amused. Jessica’s prim demeanor 
and fashion-model looks made it easy to forget that she was 
Smart as well. As a child she remembered being slightly 
intimidated every time they got together to play before 
realizing after the first few minutes how much she liked 
Jessica. She wondered if it was hard for Jessica to make 
friends, looking the way she did, but it wasn’t the kind of 
thing you could really ask someone. 

Jessica flopped down on the bed, lying across it to face 
Charlie. “So tell me about you,” she said confidentially, 
mocking a talk-show host or someone’s nosy mother. 

Charlie shrugged awkwardly, put on the spot. “What does 
that mean?” she said. 

Jessica laughed. “I don’t know! What an awful thing to 
ask, right? | mean, how do you answer that? Um, how about 
school? Any cute boys?” 

Charlie lay down across the bed, mimicking Jessica’s 
position. “Cute boys? What are we, twelve?” 

“Well?” Jessica said impatiently. 

“! don’t know,” she said. “Not really.” Her class was too 
small. She had known most of the people in it since she 
moved in with Aunt Jen, and dating anyone, liking them “like 
that,” seemed forced and altogether unappealing. She told 
Jessica as much. “Most of the girls, if they want to date, they 
date older guys,” she said. 

“And you don’t have an older guy?” Jessica teased. 

“Nah,” Charlie said. “Il figured I’d wait around for our 
batch to grow up.” 

“Right!” Jessica burst out laughing before quickly 
thinking of something to share. “Last year there was this 


guy, Donnie,” she said. “I was gaga for him, like, really. He 
was so sweet to everyone. He wore all black all the time, 
and he had this black curly hair so thick all | could think 
about when | sat behind him was burying my face in it. | was 
so distracted | ended up with an A minus in trig. He was 
Super artistic, a poet, and he carried around one of those 
black leather notebooks, and he was always scribbling 
something in it, but he would never show anybody.” She 
sighed dreamily. “I figured if | could get him to show me his 
poetry, | would really come to know his soul, you know?” 

“So did he ever?” Charlie said. 

“Oh yeah,” she said, nodding emphatically. “I asked him 
out finally, you know, ’cause he was shy and he was never 
gonna ask me, and we went to the movies and made out a 
little, and then we went and hung out on the roof of his 
apartment building and | told him all about how | want to 
study ancient civilizations and go on archaeological digs and 
stuff. And he showed me his poems.” 

“And did you come to know his soul?” Charlie said, 
excited to be included in girl talk, something she felt like 
Sshe’d never really gotten to participate in before. Charlie 
nodded eagerly. But not too eagerly. She calmed herself as 
Jessica scooted forward on the bed to whisper. 

“The poems were awful. | didn’t know it was possible to 
be both melodramatic and boring at the same time. | mean, 
like, just reading them made me embarrassed for him.” She 
covered her face in her hands. Charlie laughed. 

“What did you do?” 

“What could | do? | told him it wasn’t gonna work out and 
went home.” 

“Wait, right after you read his poetry?” 

“| still had the notebook in my hand.” 


“Oh no, Jessica, that’s awful! You must have broken his 
heart!” 

“I know! | felt so bad, but it was like the words just came 
out of my mouth. | couldn’t stop myself.” 

“Did he ever speak to you again?” 

“Oh yeah, he’s perfectly nice. But now he takes statistics 
and economics and wears sweater vests.” 

“You broke him!” Charlie threw a pillow at Jessica, who 
sat up and caught it. 

“| know! He’ll probably be a millionaire stockbroker 
instead of a starving artist, and it’s all my fault.” She 
grinned. “Come on, he’ll thank me someday.” 

Charlie shook her head. “Do you really want to be an 
archaeologist?” 

“Yeah,” Jessica said. 

“Huh,” said Charlie. “Sorry, | thought—” She shook her 
head. “Sorry, that is really cool.” 

“You thought I’d want to do something in fashion,” 
Jessica said. 

“Well, yeah.” 

“It’s okay,” Jessica said. “I did, too. | mean, | do, | love 
fashion, but there’s only so much to it, you know? | think it’s 
amazing to think about how people lived a thousand years 
ago, or two thousand, or ten. They were just like us, but so 
different. | like to imagine living in other times, other places, 
wonder who | would have been. Anyway, what about you?” 

Charlie rolled over onto her back, looking up at the 
ceiling. The tiles were made of loose, stained Styrofoam, 
and the one above her head was askew. / hope there aren’t 
any bugs up in there, she thought. 

“| don’t know,” she said slowly. “I think it’s really cool 
that you know who you want to be, but | have just never 


had that kind of a plan.” 

“Well, it’s not like you have to figure it out now,” Jessica 
said. 

“Maybe,” Charlie said. “But | don’t Know, you know what 
you want to do, John’s known since he could hold a pencil 
that he wanted to be a writer and he’s already getting 
published, even Carlton—I don’t know what he has planned, 
but you can just see that there’s a scheme brewing behind 
all his kidding around. But | just don’t have that kind of 
direction.” 

“It really doesn’t matter,” Jessica said. “I don’t think most 
people know at our age. Plus, | might change my mind, or 
not get into college, or something. You never know what’s 
going to happen. Hey, I’m gonna get changed. | want to get 
some sleep.” 

She went into the bathroom, and Charlie stayed where 
she was, gazing at the sorry-looking ceiling. She supposed it 
was becoming a defect, her earnest refusal to consider the 
past or future. Live in the present moment, her Aunt Jen said 
often, and Charlie had taken it to heart. Don’t dwell on the 
past; don’t worry about things that may never happen. I|n 
eighth grade she had taken a shop class, vaguely hoping 
the mechanical work might spark something of her father’s 
talent, might unleash some inherited passion lying latent 
within her, but it had not. She had made a clumsy-looking 
birdhouse for the backyard. She never took another shop 
class, and the birdhouse only attracted one squirrel who 
promptly knocked it down. 

Jessica came out of the bathroom wearing pink striped 
pajamas, and Charlie went in to get ready for bed, changing 
and brushing her teeth hurriedly. When she came out again, 
Jessica was already under the covers with the light by her 


bed turned off. Charlie turned hers off, too, but the light 
from the parking lot still shone in from the window, 
somehow filtering past the Dumpsters. 

Charlie stared up at the ceiling again, her hands behind 
her head. 

“Do you know what’s going to happen tomorrow?” she 
asked. 

“| don’t really know,” Jessica said. “I know it’s a 
ceremony at the school.” 

“Yeah, | know that,” Charlie said. “Are we going to have 
to do anything? Like, do they want us to speak?” 

“I! don’t think so,” Jessica said. “Why, do you want to say 
something?” 

“No, | was just wondering.” 

“Do you ever think about him?” Jessica asked. 

“Sometimes. | try not to,” Charlie said half-truthfully. She 
had sealed off the subject of Michael in her mind, locked 
him tight behind a mental wall she never touched. It wasn’t 
an effort to avoid the subject; in fact, it was an effort to 
think of him now. “What about you?” she asked Jessica. 

“Not really,” she said. “It’s weird, right? Something 
happens, and it’s the worst thing you can ever imagine, and 
it’s just burned into you at the time, like it’s going to go on 
forever. And then the years go by, and it’s just another thing 
that happened. Not like it’s not important, or terrible, but 
it’s in the past, just as much as everything else. You know?” 

“Il guess,” Charlie said. But she did know. “I just try not to 
think about those things.” 

“Me too. You know | just went to a funeral last week?” 

“I’m sorry,” Charlie said, sitting up. “Are you okay?” 

“Yeah, I’m fine,” Jessica said. “I barely even knew him; he 
was just an old relative who lived three states away. | think | 


met him once, but | hardly remember it. We mostly went for 
my mom’s sake. But it was at an old-fashioned funeral 
parlor, like in the movies, with an open coffin. And we all 
walked by the coffin, and when it was my turn | looked at 
him, and he could have been sleeping, you know? Just calm 
and restful, like people always say dead people look. There 
was nothing that | could have pointed out that made me 
think dead, if you asked me; every feature of his face looked 
the same as if he were alive. His skin was the same; his hair 
was the same as if he were alive. But he wasn’t alive, and | 
just knew it. | would have known it immediately, even if he 
wasn’t, you know, in a coffin.” 

“| know what you mean. There is something about them 
when they’re ... ,” Charlie said softly. 

“It sounds stupid when | say it. But when | looked at him, 
he looked so alive, and yet | knew, just knew that he wasn’t. 
It made my skin crawl.” 

“That’s the worst thing, isn’t it?” Charlie said. “Things 
that act alive but aren’t.” 

“What?” Jessica said. 

“I mean things that look alive but aren’t,” Charlie said 
quickly. “We should get some sleep,” she said. “Did you set 
the alarm?” 

“Yes,” Jessica said. “Good night.” 

“Night.” 

Charlie knew sleep was still a long way off. She knew 
what Jessica meant, probably better than Jessica did. The 
artificial shine in eyes that followed you as you moved, just 
like a real person’s would. The slight lurch of realistic 
animals who did not move the way a living thing should. The 
occasional programming glitch that made a robot appear to 
have done something new, creative. Her childhood had 


been filled with them; she had grown up in the strange gap 
between life and not-life. It had been her world. It had been 
her father’s world. Charlie closed her eyes. What did that 
world do to him? 





Thud. Thud. Thud. 

Charlie startled out of sleep, disoriented. Something was 
banging on her door, trying to force its way in. 

“Oh, for goodness’ sake,” Jessica said grumpily, and 
Charlie blinked and sat up. 

Right. The motel. Hurricane. Someone was knocking on 
the door. As Jessica went to answer it, Charlie got out of bed 
and looked at the clock. It was 10:00 a.m. She looked out 
the window at the bright new day. She had slept worse than 
usual, not nightmares, but dark dreams she could not quite 
remember, things that stuck with her just beyond the back 
of her mind, images she could not catch. 

“Charlieeeee!” Someone was screeching. Charlie went to 
the door and found herself immediately enveloped in a hug, 
Marla’s plump arms gripping her like a vise. Charlie hugged 


her back, tighter than she meant to. When Marla let go, she 
stepped back, grinning. Marla’s moods had always been so 
intense they were contagious, spreading out to whoever 
was in her path. When she was gloomy, a pall fell over all 
her friends, the sun gone behind her cloud. When she was 
happy, like now, it was impossible to avoid the lift of her joy. 
She was always breathless, always slightly scattered, 
always giving the impression that she was running late, 
though she almost never was. Marla was wearing a loose 
dark-red blouse, and it suited her well, setting off her fair 
Skin and dark-brown hair. 

Charlie had kept in better touch with Marla than the 
others. Marla was the type who made it easy to stay friends, 
even at a distance. Even as a little kid she was always 
sending letters and postcards, undeterred if Charlie didn’t 
respond to every one. She was resolutely positive and 
assumed that everyone liked her unless they made it clear 
otherwise, using the proper expletives. Charlie admired it 
about her—she herself, though not shy, was always 
calculating: Does that person like me? Are they just being 
polite? How do people tell the difference? Marla had come to 
visit her once when they were twelve. She had charmed 
Charlie’s aunt and made fast friends with her school friends 
while still making it abundantly clear that she was Charlie’s 
friend, and she was there only to see Charlie. 

Marla’s gigantic smile turned serious as she studied 
Charlie, peering at her as if trying to spot the differences 
since they last met. “You’re as pale as ever.” She took 
Charlie’s hands in her own. “And you’re all clammy. Don’t 
you ever get warm?” She dropped Charlie’s hands and 
proceeded to study the motel room skeptically, as though 
uncertain exactly what it was. 


“It’s the luxury suite,” Jessica said without expression as 
she searched for something in her bag. Her hair was sticking 
up in all directions, and Charlie stifled a smile. It was nice to 
see something about Jessica in disarray for once. Jessica 
found her hairbrush and held it up triumphantly. “Ha! Take 
that, morning frizz!” 

“Come on in,” Charlie said, realizing she and Marla were 
still in the doorway, the door wide open. Marla nodded. 

“One sec. JASON!” she shouted out the door. No one 
emerged. “IASON!” 

A young boy came trotting up from the road. He was 
Short and wiry, darker-skinned than his half sister. His 
Batman T-shirt and black shorts were made for someone 
twice his size. His hair was cut close to his head, and his 
arms and legs were streaked with dirt. 

“Were you playing in the road?” Marla demanded. 

“No?” he said. 

“Yes, you were. Don’t do that. If you get yourself killed, 
Mom's gonna blame me. Get inside.” Marla shoved her little 
brother inside and shook her head. 

“How old are you now?” Charlie asked. 

“Eleven,” Jason said. He went to the TV and started 
fiddling with buttons. 

“Jason, stop it,” Marla said. “Play with your action 
figures.” 

“I’m not a little kid,” he said. “Anyway, they’re in the 
car.” But he stepped away from the television and went to 
look out the window. 

Marla rubbed her eyes. “We just got here. We had to 
leave at six this morning, and someone,” she said pointedly, 
glancing over her shoulder at Jason, “wouldn’t stop fiddling 
with the radio. | am so tired.” She didn’t seem tired, but 


then she never did. At their sleepovers as kids, Charlie 
remembered her bouncing around like a maniac while the 
rest of them were winding down for the night—then falling 
asleep abruptly, like a cartoon character who’d been hit 
over the head with a rolling pin. 

“We should get ready,” Jessica said. “We're supposed to 
meet the guys at the diner in an hour.” 

“Hurry!” Marla said. “We have to change, too. | didn’t 
want to get all gross while we were driving.” 

“Jason, you can watch TV,” Charlie said, and he looked at 
Marla. She nodded, and he grinned and turned it on, starting 
to flip through channels. 

“Please just pick a channel,” Marla said. Charlie headed 
into the bathroom to get dressed while Jessica fussed with 
her hair. 


* OK OX 


A little less than an hour later, they pulled into the diner 
parking lot. The others were already there, in the same 
booth they’d been in the night before. When they got inside, 
Marla performed a second round of squeals and hugs, only 
Slightly quieter now that they were in public. Overshadowed 
by her enthusiasm, Lamar stood and waved at Jessica and 
Charlie, waiting until Marla sat down. 

“Hi, guys,” he said at last. He was wearing a dark tie and 
a dark gray suit. He was tall and thin, black, with his hair 
Shaved close to his head; his features were sharp and 
attractive, and he looked just a little older than the rest of 
them. It could have been the suit, but Charlie thought it was 
something about the way he stood, holding himself like he 
would be comfortable wherever he was. 


They had all dressed up a little for the ceremony. Marla 
had changed at the motel, and she and Jessica were both 
wearing dresses. Jessica’s was knee-length and covered in 
pastel flowers, a light fabric that moved as she walked. 
Marla’s was simple, white with big sunflowers splashed over 
it. Charlie hadn’t thought to bring a dress, and she hoped 
She didn’t look out of place in black pants and a white 
button-down shirt. John was wearing a light-purple shirt 
today, though he’d added a matching tie in a slightly darker 
color, and Carlton seemed to be wearing an identical outfit 
as before, still all in black. They all sat down. 

“Well, don’t we all look nice,” Marla said happily. 

“Where’s Jason?” Jessica craned her head from side to 
side. 

Marla groaned. “I'll be right back.” She scooted out of the 
booth and hurried out the door. 

“Lamar, what have you been up to?” Charlie asked. 
Lamar grinned. 

“He’s an Ivy League-man,” Carlton said, teasing. Lamar 
looked briefly down at the table, but he was smiling. 

“Early acceptance,” was all he said. 

“Which one?” Jessica said. 

“Cornell.” 

“Wait, how did you already apply to college?” Charlie 
said. “That’s not till next year. | don’t even know where | 
want to go.” 

“He skipped sixth grade,” John said. There was a brief 
flicker of something across his face, and Charlie knew what 
it was. John liked being the clever one, the precocious one. 
Lamar had been kind of a goof-off when they were kids, and 
now he had leaped ahead. John forced a grin, and the 


moment passed. “Congratulations,” he said, with no hint 
that it was not entirely sincere. 

Marla came bursting in again, this time towing Jason 
behind her, holding on to his upper arm. At the hotel she 
had made him change into a blazer and khakis as well, 
though he was still wearing his Nikes. 

“I’m coming. Stop it,” he whined. 

“Is that Jason?” Carlton asked. 

“Yeah,” Jason said. 

“Do you remember me?” Carlton said. 

“I don’t remember any of you,” Jason — said 
unapologetically. 

“Sit there,” Marla said, pointing to the next booth over. 

“Okay,” he grumbled. 

“Marla, he can sit with us,” Jessica said. “Jason, come on 
over.” 

“l want to sit here,” he said and sat down behind them. 
He pulled a video game out of his pocket and was oblivious 
to the world. 

The waitress came over and they ordered; Marla told her 
to put Jason’s breakfast on their check. When their food 
came, Charlie checked her watch. 

“We don’t have a lot of time,” she said. 

“We'll get there,” Carlton said. “It’s not far.” A small 
piece of food fell out of his mouth as he gestured down the 
road. 

“Have you been back to the school?” Lamar asked, and 
Carlton shrugged. 

“I pass it sometimes. | know this is a nostalgia trip for all 
of you, but | just live here. | don’t exactly go around 
reminiscing about kindergarten all the time.” 


They were all quiet for a second, the beeps and pings of 
Jason’s video game filling the silence. 

“Hey, did you know Lamar’s going to Cornell next year?” 
Jessica said to Marla. 

“Really? Well, aren’t you ahead of the pack,” she said. 
Lamar looked down at his plate. When he looked up, he was 
a little flushed. 

“All part of the five-year plan,” he said. They laughed, 
and his blush deepened. “It’s kind of weird to be back here,” 
he said, hastily changing the subject. 

“Il think it’s strange that I’m the only one who still lives 
here,” Carlton said. “Nobody ever leaves Hurricane.” 

“Is it strange, though?” Jessica said thoughtfully. “My 
parents—you remember, my mom’s from New York 
Originally; she used to joke about going back. When / go 
back to New York, but it might as well have been When / win 
the lottery; she didn’t mean it. And then right after 
Michael’s ... right after, she stopped joking about it, then 
three months later we were all on a plane to visit her sister 
in Queens, and we never came back. My dad’s father died 
when | was nine, and they came back to Hurricane for the 
funeral without me. They didn’t want me coming back here, 
and honestly | didn’t want to go. | was kind of anxious the 
whole time they were gone. | kept looking out the window, 
hoping they would come back early, like something bad was 
going to happen to them if they stayed.” 

They looked at one another, considering. Charlie knew 
they had all moved, all but Carlton, but she had never 
thought about it—people moved all the time. Carlton was 
right, though. People didn’t leave Hurricane. 

“We moved because my dad got a new job, the summer 
after third grade,” John said. “That’s not exactly mysterious. 


Lamar, you left in the middle of the semester that year.” 

“Yeah,” he said. “But that’s because when my parents 
split, | went with my mom to Indianapolis.” He frowned. “But 
my dad moved, too. He’s in Chicago now.” 

“My parents left because of Michael,” Marla said. They all 
turned to her. “Afterward, my mom couldn’t sleep. She said 
spirits were stirring in the town, unquiet. My dad told her 
she was being ridiculous, but we still left as fast as we 
could.” Marla looked around at her friends. “What?” she said 
defensively. “/ don’t believe in ghosts.” 

“! do,” Charlie said. She felt like she was talking from a 
great distance; she was almost surprised they could hear 
her. “I mean, not ghosts, but ... memories. | think they 
linger, whether there’s someone there or not.” The house, 
her old house, was imbued with memory, with loss, with 
longing. It hung in the air like humidity; the walls were 
saturated, like the wood had soaked in it. It had been there 
before she came, and it was there now; it would be there 
forever. It had to be. There was too much, too great and 
vast a weight, for Charlie to have brought it with her. 

“That doesn’t make any sense,” Jessica said. “Memory is 
in our brains. Like, literally stored in the brain; you can see it 
ona scan. It can’t exist outside of someone’s mind.” 

“| don’t know,” John said. “Think of all the places that 
have ... atmosphere. Old houses, sometimes, places where 
you walk in and you feel sad or nostalgic, even though 
you've never been there before.” 

“That’s not other people’s memories, though,” Lamar 
said. “That’s subconscious cues, stuff we don’t realize we’re 
noticing, that tells us we should feel some way. Peeling 
paint, old-fashioned furniture, lace curtains, details that tell 
us to be nostalgic—mostly things we pick up from movies, 


probably. | got lost at a carnival when | was four. | never got 
so scared in my life, but | don’t think anybody’s feeling 
suddenly desperate for their mom when they pass that 
Ferris wheel.” 

“Maybe they are,” Marla said. “I don’t know, sometimes | 
have litthe moments where it’s like there’s something | 
forgot, something | regret, or that I’m happy about, or 
something that makes me want to cry, but it’s only there for 
a split second. Then it’s gone. Maybe we’re all shedding our 
fear and regret and hope everywhere we go, and we're 
catching traces of people we’ve never met. Maybe it’s 
everywhere.” 

“How is that different from believing in ghosts?” Lamar 
asked. 

“It’s totally different,” Marla said. “It’s not supernatural, 
and it’s not, like, the souls of dead people. It’s just ... people 
leaving their mark on the world.” 

“So it’s the ghosts of living people?” Lamar said. 

“No.” 

“You're talking about people having some kind of 
essence that can hang around a specific place after the 
person is gone,” Lamar said. “That’s a ghost.” 

“No, it’s not! I’m not saying it right,” Marla said. She 
closed her eyes for a minute, thinking. “Okay,” she said at 
last. “Do you all remember my grandmother?” 

“| do,” said Jason. “She was my grandmother, too.” 

“She was my dad’s mom, not yours,” Marla said. 
“Anyway, you were only a year old when she died.” 

“1 do remember her,” Jason said quietly. 

“Okay,” Marla said. “So she collected dolls from the time 
she was a kid. She and my grandfather used to travel a lot 
after he retired, and she’d bring them back from all over the 


world—she had them from France, Egypt, Italy, Brazil, China, 
everywhere. She kept them in their own special room, and it 
was full of them, shelves and shelves of dolls, some tiny and 
some almost as big as | was. | loved it; one of my earliest 
memories is playing in that room with the dolls. | remember 
my dad would always warn me to be careful, and my 
grandmother would laugh and say, ‘Toys should be played 
with.’ 

“| had a favorite, a twenty-one-inch red-haired doll in a 
Short, shiny white dress like Shirley Temple. | called her 
Maggie. She was from the 1940s, and | loved her. | told her 
everything, and when | was lonely, | would imagine myself 
in that room, playing with Maggie. My grandmother died 
when | was six, and when my dad and | went to see my 
grandfather after the funeral, he told me | should pick a doll 
to keep from the collection. | went to the room to get 
Maggie, and as soon as | walked through the door, 
something was wrong. 

“It was as though the light had changed, become darker, 
harsher than it used to be. | looked around, and the lively, 
playful poses of the dolls now seemed unnatural, disjointed. 
It was as though all of them were staring at me. | didn’t 
know what they wanted. Maggie was in the corner, and | 
took a step toward her, then stopped. | met her eyes, and 
instead of painted glass | saw a stranger. | turned and ran. | 
raced down the hall as though something might be chasing 
me, not daring to look back until | reached my father’s side. 
He asked if | had picked a doll, and | just shook my head. | 
never went back in that room.” 

Everyone was silent. Charlie was transfixed, still seeing 
little Marla running for her life. 


“What happened to the dolls?” Carlton asked, only half 
breaking the spell. 

“| don’t Know. | think my mom sold them to another 
collector when my grandfather died,” Marla said. 

“Sorry, Marla,” Lamar said, “it’s still just tricks of the 
mind. You missed your grandmother, you were frightened of 
death, and dolls are inherently freaky.” 

Charlie broke in, wanting to head off the argument. “Is 
everybody done eating? We have to go soon.” 

“We still have plenty of time,” Carlton said, looking down 
at his watch. “It’s, like, five minutes away.” Something else 
fell out of his mouth, landing next to the first dropped bit of 
food. 

John looked around the table, from person to person, as 
though he were waiting for something. 

“We have to tell them,” he said, looking at Charlie. 

“Oh yeah, we totally do!” Jessica said. 

“Tell us what?” Jason piped up, peeking over the back of 
Marla’s seat. 

“Shh,” Marla said halfheartedly. She was looking at John. 
“Tell us what?” 

John dropped his voice, forcing everyone to lean in closer. 
Charlie did it, too, eager to hear, even though she knew 
exactly what he was going to Say. 

“We went to Freddy’s last night,” he said. 

“Freddy’s is still there?” Marla exclaimed, too loud. 

“Shhh!” Jessica said, making frantic hand movements. 

“Sorry,” Marla whispered. “I just can’t believe it’s still 
there.” 

“It’s not,” Carlton said, raising his eyebrows and grinning 
enigmatically at Lamar. 


“It’s hidden,” John explained. “They were supposed to 
knock it down to build a mall, but they didn’t. They just ... 
built around it.” 

“Entombed it,” John corrected. 

“And you got in?” Lamar. said. Charlie nodded 
confirmation. “No way.” 

“What was it like?” Marla asked. 

“Exactly the same,” John said. “It was like ...” 

“It was like everyone vanished,” Charlie said softly. 

“| want to go, too! You have to take us,” Marla said. 
Jessica cleared her throat hesitantly, and they all looked at 
her. 

“lI don’t know,’ 
we?” 

“We have to see it,” Lamar said. “You can’t tell us this 
and not let us see it.” 

“| want to see it,” Jason chimed in. “What’s Freddy's?” 
They ignored him. His eyes were wide, and he was hanging 
on to every word. 

“Maybe Jessica’s right,” John said with reluctance. 
“Maybe it’s disrespectful to go tonight.” There was a 
moment’s pause, and Charlie knew they were waiting for 
her to talk. She was the one they were really afraid of 
offending; they needed her permission. 

“| think we should go,” she said. “Il don’t think it’s 
disrespectful. It’s almost a way of honoring ... what 
happened.” She looked around the table. Jessica was 
nodding. Charlie wasn’t sure it was much of an argument, 
but they didn’t need to be convinced. They wanted an 
excuse. 

Marla twisted herself to look back at Jason’s plate. “Are 
you done eating?” she asked. 


, 


she said slowly. “I mean, today? Should 


“Yup,” he said. Marla pointed to the game in his hand. 

“You. know you can’t play with that during the 
ceremony,” she said. 

“Yup.” 

“I’m serious, Jason. I’m locking it in the car.” 

“Why don’t you just lock me in the car,” he muttered. 

“I'd love to,” Marla said under her breath as she turned 
back to the group. “Okay, we can go.” 

They headed to the school in a caravan, the boys in 
Carlton’s car, Marla following, and Charlie bringing up the 
rear. 

“We should have carpooled,” Jessica said idly, staring out 
the window. It hadn’t occurred to Charlie. 

“I guess,” she said. 

“On the other hand, I’m not sure | want to ride with Marla 
and Jason,” Jessica said plainly. 

“They are kind of intense,” Charlie agreed. 

When they arrived, the parking lot was already jammed 
full. Charlie parked on a side street in what she hoped was a 
legal spot, and they walked to the school along the familiar 
sidewalk. 

Jessica shivered. “I’ve got goose bumps.” 

“It is weird to be here,” Charlie said. The school looked 
unchanged from the outside, but the fence was new and 
Slick, a black, plastic-coated chain link. The whole town was 
like this, a mix of old and new, familiar and not. The things 
that had changed seemed out of place, and the things that 
had remained the same made Charlie feel out of place. /t 
must be so strange for Carlton to live here, she thought. “/ 
know this is a nostalgia trip for all of you, but | just live 
here,” he had said. Somehow, Charlie was not sure she 
believed that. 


When they got to the playing field behind the school, the 
bleachers were already full. Rows of folding chairs had been 
laid out in front of them to add more seating, and Charlie 
spotted Marla and the boys at the front. 

“Oh, great,” she said. “I don’t want to sit in the front 
row.” 

“I don’t mind,” Jessica said. Charlie looked at her. 

Of course you don’t, she wanted to say. You’re ... you. 

“Yeah,” she said instead, “no big deal. Half the town 
must be here,” she observed as they made their way to the 
group, where two seats had been saved. There was one 
open in the front row, next to Carlton, and one right behind 
it, beside Marla. Jessica winked at Charlie and sat down next 
to Carlton. She leaned toward him, and they started 
whispering. Charlie repeated herself to Marla: “There’s a lot 
of people here.” 

“Yeah,” Marla said. “I mean, it’s a small town, you know? 
Michael’s ... it was a big deal. Plus, his parents still live here. 
People remember.” 

“People remember,” Charlie echoed softly. There was a 
Small raised stage set up in front of them, with a podium 
and four chairs. Behind the chairs a screen was suspended; 
projected on it was a larger-than-life picture of Michael. It 
was a close-up, just his face. It was not the most flattering 
picture: His head was thrown back at an odd angle, his 
mouth open in laughter, but it was perfect—a joyful 
moment, snatched up and kept, not curated. He looked 
happy. 

“Darn it,” Marla said softly. Charlie looked at her. She was 
dabbing at her eyes with a tissue. Charlie put an arm around 
her. 

“| know,” she said. 


The sound system came on suddenly with a whine that 
Slowly faded. Four people walked onstage: a heavyset man 
in a suit who went straight to the microphone, an elderly 
woman, and a couple, a man and a woman. The man in the 
Suit stepped up to the podium, and the elderly woman sat 
down in one of the four chairs. The couple stayed back, but 
they did not sit. Charlie knew they must be Michael’s 
parents, but she did not recognize them. When she was 
young they had just been parents, a species that was for the 
most part unremarkable. She realized suddenly that she 
didn’t even know their names; Michael’s parents had not 
gone out of their way to interact with their son’s friends, 
and Charlie had literally spoken to them as “Michael’s 
mom,” and “Michael’s dad,” as if those were appropriate 
forms of address. 

The man at the podium introduced himself as the 
school’s principal. He said a few things about loss and 
community and the fleeting preciousness of youth. He 
talked briefly about Michael’s kindness, his artistic talent, 
and the impression he made, even as a small child, on 
everyone he met. It was true, Charlie reflected. Michael had 
been an unusually charismatic child. He wasn’t exactly a 
leader, but they all found themselves wanting to please him, 
to make him smile, and so they often did the things they 
knew he wanted to do, just to make him happy. 

The principal finished and introduced Michael’s parents, 
Joan and Donald Brooks. They stood at the podium 
awkwardly, each looking from face to face in the crowd, as if 
they were not sure how they had gotten here. Finally Joan 
stepped forward. 

“It feels strange to be up here,” was the first thing she 
said, and a murmur of something like agreement swept 


, 


quietly through the crowd. “We are so grateful to all of you 
for coming, especially those of you who came from out of 
town.” She looked directly at the front row, talking to Charlie 
and the others. “Some of Michael’s friends have come from 
all over, and | think that is a testament to who he was that 
ten years later, with your lives on new paths, moving on to a 
whole new stage of life—” So close to the stage, Charlie 
could see she was about to cry, tears wavering in her eyes, 
but her voice was steady. “We are grateful you are here. We 
wanted to give Michael a legacy with this scholarship, but it 
is clear that he has already left one, all on his own.” Marla 
grabbed Charlie’s hand, and Charlie squeezed back. 

“| want to say,” Joan continued, “Something about the 
families who are not here. As we all know, Michael was not 
the only child lost during those terrible few months.” She 
read out four more names, two girls and two boys. Charlie 
glanced at Marla. They all knew there had been other 
children, but Michael’s death had loomed so great in all their 
lives that they had never even talked about the other 
victims. Now Charlie felt a pang of guilt. To someone, those 
little girls and boys had been as vital as Michael. To 
someone, their losses had meant the end of the world. She 
closed her eyes for a moment. / can’t mourn everyone, she 
thought. No one can. 

Joan was still talking. “Although their families have 
moved on to other places, those young boys and girls will 
always have a place in our hearts. Now | would like to call to 
speak a young man who was particularly close to my son. 
Carlton, if you would?” 

They all watched in surprise as Carlton stood and 
climbed up behind the podium. Joan hugged him tightly and 
stayed close behind him as he pulled a crumpled piece of 


paper from his pocket. He cleared his throat, looking over 
the heads of the crowd, then crumpled the paper up again 
and put it back in his pocket. 

“| don’t remember as much about Michael as | should,” 
he said finally. “Too much of those years is a blur; | Know we 
met when we were still in diapers, but | don’t remember 
that, thankfully.” There was a soft titter through the crowd. 
“| do know that as far back as | have memories, Michael is in 
them. | remember playing superheroes; drawing, which he 
was much better at than me; and as we got older | 
remember ... well, playing superheroes and drawing. What | 
really remember, though, is that my days were always more 
exciting when he was in them. He was smarter than me; he 
was the one always coming up with new ideas, new ways to 
get in trouble. Sorry about those lamps, by the way, Mrs. 
Brooks. If | had jumped the way Michael said, | probably 
would only have broken one.” 

Donald laughed, a gulping, desperate sound. Charlie 
shifted uncomfortably and pulled her hand from Marla’s with 
an apologetic half smile. Their grief, naked, was too much to 
watch. It was raw, an open wound, and she could not stand 
to look. 

Carlton came back down to sit with them. Michael’s 
grandmother spoke, and then his father, who had recovered 
enough to share a memory of taking his son to his first art 
class. He told the crowd about the scholarship, for a 
graduating senior who has demonstrated both excellence 
and passion in the arts, and announced the winner of the 
first one, Anne Park, a slight Korean girl who came quickly 
up to the stage to accept her plague and hugs from 
Michael’s parents. It must have been strange for Anne, 
Charlie thought, her honor so overshadowed by its origins. 


But then, she realized, Anne must have known Michael, too, 
however much in passing. 

After the ceremony, they went to say hello to Michael’s 
parents, hugging them and making sounds of condolence. 
What do you say to someone who has lost a child? Can it be 
any easier? Can ten years make a difference, or do they 
wake up each morning as fresh with grief as the day he 
died? On a long cafeteria table by the stage, pictures and 
cards were collecting slowly—people had brought flowers, 
notes to Michael’s parents or to him. Things they 
remembered, things they wished they had said. Charlie 
went over and browsed through the notes. There were 
pictures of her and the others as well as of Michael. It 
Shouldn’t have surprised her—they were all together 
constantly, aS a group or in rotating groups of two and 
three. She saw herself in the middle of a pose: Michael, 
John, and she, all covered in mud, with Jessica beside them, 
still perfectly clean, refusing to go near them. Charlie 
smiled. That looks about right. In another, a five-year-old 
Marla struggled to support the weight of her newborn little 
brother, with Lamar peering suspiciously at the tiny thing 
over her shoulder. Some of Michael’s drawings were there, 
too, crayon scribbles professionally, incongruously framed. 

Charlie picked one up, a drawing of what she supposed 
was a 7. rex stomping through a city. It was actually, she 
realized now, almost amazing how talented he was. While 
She and the others were scribbling stick figures, Michael’s 
drawings looked realistic, sort of. 

“That’s really good,” John said over her shoulder. Charlie 
Startled. 

“You scared me,” she said. 

“Sorry.” 


Charlie looked back at the drawing. Whatever it was, it 
was better than she could draw now. Suddenly her chest 
tightened, gripped with loss and rage. It wasn’t just that 
Michael died young, it was what that truly meant: He had 
been stopped in his tracks, years, decades of life snatched 
and torn violently from him. She felt herself well up with 
youthful indignation as if she were a child again, wanting 
only to whine, /t’s not fair! 

Taking a deep breath, Charlie set the picture back down 
on the table and turned away. The gathering was continuing, 
but she needed to leave. She caught Marla’s eye, and Marla, 
as scarily intuitive as always, nodded and caught Lamar’s 
Sleeve. From their various vantage points, they all headed 
for the parking lot. No one seemed to notice their departure, 
which made sense. Except for Carlton, they were all 
strangers here. 

In the lot, they stopped by Marla’s car. She had somehow 
called down a miracle and found a space right next to the 
school. 

“Can | play my game now?” Jason said immediately, and 
Marla found her keys in her purse and handed them over. 

“Don’t drive away,” she warned. Suddenly, Marla 
grabbed her brother and pulled him close, hugging him to 
her for a long minute. 

“Jeez, I’m only going to the car,” he muttered when she 
let him go. 

“Yeah, maybe | should let you drive away,” she said, 
giving him a little push. She cleared her throat. “So are we 
going to Freddy’s?” she said. They all looked at one another. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. “Il think we should.” Somehow, 
following this, going back to Freddy’s seemed like more than 
a game. It felt right. “Let’s meet there at sunset,” she said. 


“Hey, Jessica, can you catch a ride with the guys or 
something? I’m gonna go for a walk.” 

“You can come with us,” Marla said. “I promised Jason I'd 
take him to the movies.” 

Charlie headed down the road without waiting to hear 
the rest of the discussion. A dozen feet from the lot, she 
realized she was being followed. She turned around. 

“John?” 

“Do you mind if | come? You’re going to your old house, 
right?” 

“How did you know that?” 

“It’s the only interesting thing out this way. Anyway, | 
went to see my old place, too. It was painted blue, and there 
was a garden in the yard. It was weird. | know it wasn’t blue 
when | lived there, but | couldn’t remember what color it 
was supposed to be. Everything’s so different.” 

Charlie didn’t say anything. She wasn’t even sure she 
wanted John to come with her. Her house, her father’s 
house, it was private. She thought of the first time John had 
seen the toys, his fascination, an interest that was all his, 
that had nothing to do with pleasing her. She relented. 

“Okay, you can come.” 

“Is it...” He hesitated. “Is it different?” 

“It’s really not,” Charlie said. It wasn’t quite true, but she 
wasn’t sure how to explain the thing that had changed. 

They walked together for the better part of three miles, 
away from town and down old roads, first paved, then 
gravel. As they neared the place they left the roads, 
ascending the steep incline of a hill overrun with brush and 
trees that should have been trimmed or cut down ages ago. 
Three rooftops peeked over the leaves, scattered widely 


over the hill, but no one had lived in these houses in a long 
time. 

At last they walked up the driveway, and John stopped 
Short, staring up at the house. 

“| thought it would be less intimidating,” he said softly. 
Impatient, Charlie took his arm for a second and pulled him 
away, leading them around the side of the house. It was one 
thing for him to be here with her, but she was not quite 
ready to let someone else inside. She wasn’t even sure she 
wanted to go inside again anyway. He followed her without 
protest, as if aware that they were in her territory and she 
would decide where they went. 

The property was large, more than a lawn. There were 
woods surrounding the wide space of the backyard, and as a 
child Charlie had often felt like she was in her own little 
realm, ruler of all she surveyed. The grass had gone wild, 
weeds growing feral and up to their knees. They walked the 
perimeter. John peered into the woods, and Charlie was 
struck by her old childhood fear, like something out of a 
fairy tale. Don’t go into the woods alone, Charlotte, her 
father warned. It was not sinister, just a parent’s warning, 
don’t get lost, like telling her not to cross the street without 
holding someone’s hand or not to touch the stove when it 
was hot, but Charlie took it more seriously. She knew from 
her storybooks, as all children did, that the woods contained 
wolves, and more dangerous things. She caught John’s 
sleeve. 

“Don’t,” she said, and he pulled back from the woods, 
not asking why. Instead, he went to a tree in the middle of 
the yard and put a hand on it. 

“Remember that tree?” he asked, smiling, something a 
little wicked in his voice. 


“Of course,” Charlie said, walking over. “It’s been here 
longer than | ever was.” But he was looking at her, waiting 
for more, and suddenly she remembered. 

It had been a sunny day, springtime; they were six years 
old, maybe. John was visiting, and they were playing hide- 
and-seek, half supervised by Charlie’s father, who was in his 
garage workshop, absorbed in his machines. The door was 
open so he would notice if someone screamed, but short of 
that, the outdoors was their own. John counted to ten, eyes 
covered, facing the tree that was home base. The yard was 
wide and open; there were not many places to hide, so 
Charlie, buoyed up by the excitement of the game, dared to 
hide beyond the forbidden edge of the woods, just barely 
past the tree line. John searched the other places first: 
behind her father’s car, in the corner where one part of the 
garage jutted out, the space beneath the porch where a 
child could just barely crawl. He realized where she must be, 
and Charlie braced herself to run as he began to walk the 
edges of the yard, darting into the woods and out again, 
looking behind trees. When at last he found her, she took 
off, tearing across the lawn to the home base tree. He was 
just behind her, so close he could almost touch her, and she 
sped on, staying just out of reach. She hit the tree, almost 
slamming into it, and John was right behind her, bumping 
into her a second later, too fast to stop. They were both 
giggling hysterically, and then they stopped at the same 
moment, still gasping to catch their breath. 

“Hey, Charlotte,” John said, stressing her name in the 
mocking tone he always used. 

“Don’t call me that,” Charlie said automatically. 

“You ever see grown-ups kiss?” He picked up a stick and 
started digging at the tree bark, like he was more interested 


in that than in her answer. Charlie shrugged. 

“Yeah, | guess so.” 

“Wanna try it?” He still wasn’t looking at her; his face 
was streaked with dirt, like it often was, and his hair was 
sticking out in all directions, a twig caught in it above his 
forehead. 

“Gross,” Charlie said, wrinkling her nose. Then, after a 
moment, “Yeah, okay.” 

John dropped the stick and leaned toward her, his hands 
behind his back. Charlie closed her eyes, waiting, still not 
entirely sure what she was supposed to do. 

“Charlotte!” It was her father. Charlie jumped back. 
John’s face was so close to hers that she banged into him 
with her forehead. 

“Ow!” he yelled, clapping a hand to his nose. 

Charlie’s father came around the side of the tree. “What 
are you up to? John?” He pried John’s fingers away from his 
nose. “You’re not bleeding. You'll be fine,” he said. 
“Charlotte, closer to the house, please.” He then pointed his 
finger, directing them forward. “John, it looks like your mom 
is here anyway.” He walked ahead of them, toward the 
driveway where her car had just pulled in. 

“Yeah, okay.” John trotted off toward the driveway, 
turning once to wave at Charlie. He was grinning like 
something wonderful had happened, although Charlie was 
not quite sure what it was. 

“Oh my,” Charlie said now, covering her face, sure it was 
bright red. When she looked up again, John was grinning 
that same satisfied, six-year-old grin. 

“You know, my nose still hurts when it rains,” he said, 
touching a finger to it. 


“It does not,” Charlie said. She leaned back against the 
tree. “I can’t believe you tried to kiss me. We were six!” 
Charlie stared at him accusingly. 

“Even the littlest heart wants what it wants,” John said in 
a mock romantic voice, but there was an edge of something 
real in it, something not well enough hidden. Charlie 
realized, suddenly, that he was standing very close to her. 
“Let’s go see your dad’s workshop,” John said abruptly, too 
loud, and Charlie nodded. 

“Okay.” She regretted it as she said it. She did not want 
to open the workshop door. She closed her eyes, still leaning 
against the tree. She could still see it; it was all she could 
see when she thought of that place. The _ twitching, 
malformed, metal skeleton in its dark corner, with its 
wrenching shudders and its blistering silver eyes. The image 
welled up in her head until it was all there was. The memory 
radiated a cutting anguish, but she did not know who it 
belonged to: to the thing, to her father, or to herself. 

Charlie felt a hand on her shoulder and opened her eyes. 
It was John, frowning at her like he was worried. 

“Charlie, are you okay?” 

No. 

“Yes,” she said. “Come on, let’s go see what’s in the 
workshop.” 

It was not locked, and there was no real reason it should 
be, Charlie thought. Her eyes went first to the dark corner. 
The figure was not there. There was a weathered apron 
hanging in its place, the one her father had worn for 
soldering, and his goggles next to it, but there was no sign 
of that uncanny presence. Charlie should have felt relief, but 
She didn’t, only a vague unease. She looked around. There 
seemed to be almost nothing left of the workshop: The 


benches were there, where her father had assembled and 
tweaked his inventions, but the materials, the blueprints, 
and the half-finished robots that were once crammed onto 
every surface had disappeared. 

Where are they? Had her aunt had them carted away to 
a junkyard to rust and crumble among other discarded, 
useless things? Or had her father done it himself, so no one 
else would have to? The concrete floor was littered here and 
there with scraps; whoever had done the cleanup had not 
been thorough. Charlie knelt and picked up an oddly shaped 
scrap of wood, then a small circuit board. She turned it over. 
Whose brain were you? she wondered, but it did not matter, 
not really. It was battered and worn, the etched copper too 
badly scratched to repair, even if someone wanted to. 

“Charlie,” John said from across the workshop. He was in 
the dark corner; if the skeleton had been there, it could 
have reached out to touch him. 

But it’s not there. 

“What?” 

“Come see what | found.” 

Charlie went. John was standing beside her father’s 
toolbox, and he stepped away as she came over, giving her 
space. Charlie knelt down before it. It looked as if it had just 
been polished. It was made of dark, stained wood, glossy 
with some kind of lacquer. She opened it gently. Charlie 
picked up an awl from the top tray and held it fora moment, 
the rounded wooden handle fitting into the palm of her hand 
as if it had been made for her to use. Not that she knew 
how. The last time she had picked it up, she could barely fit 
her fingers around its base. She picked up the tools one 
after another, lifting them from their places. The toolbox had 
wooden spaces carved out to fit the precise shape of each 


item. All the tools were polished and clean, their wooden 
handles smooth and their metal unrusted. They looked as 
though they had been used just that morning, wiped down 
and put away meticulously. Like someone still cared for 
them. She looked at them with a fierce, unexpected joy, as 
if something she had fought for was returned to her. But her 
joy felt wrong, misplaced; looking at her father’s things set 
her off-balance. Something in the world was not as it should 
be. Seized suddenly with an unfounded fear, she thrust the 
awl back into its place in the box, dropping it like something 
burning. She closed the lid, but she did not stand. 

Memory overtook her, and she closed her eyes, not 
fighting against it. 

Her feet were wedged in the dirt, and two large and 
callous hands covered her eyes. Suddenly there was a 
bright light, and Charlie squinted, squirming impatiently to 
see what was before her. Three complete and gleaming 
figures towered over her, motionless, the sun reflecting off 
every edge and contour. They were blinding to behold. 

“What do you think?” She heard the question but could 
not answer it; her eyes hadn’t adjusted. The three masses 
of standing metal all looked similar in structure, but Charlie 
had grown accustomed to seeing more than was there, 
imagining the final result. For a long time now there had 
been three empty suits, hanging like carcasses from a rafter 
in the attic. Charlie knew that they had a special purpose, 
and now she understood what it was. 

Two long beams protruded from the top of the head of 
one of the hulking masses. The head itself was solid and 
Skull-like; the beams looked as if they had been violently 
thrust there. 

“That’s the rabbit!” Charlie squealed, proud of herself. 


“You aren't scared of him?” the voice asked. 

“Of course not. He looks like Theodore!” 

“Theodore. That’s right.” 

The figure in the middle was more clearly rendered: Its 
face was chiseled, its features distinct. It was clearly a bear, 
and a single metal beam stuck out from the top of its head 
as well. Charlie was puzzled for a moment, then smiled. “For 
the top hat,” she said with confidence. 

The last form was perhaps the most frightening; a long, 
metal clamp protruded from its empty face, in the place 
where a mouth might go. It was holding something on a 
platter, a metal structure that looked like a jaw, wires 
running like strewn spaghetti up and down the frame and in 
and out of sockets. 

“That one’s scary,” she admitted hesitantly. 

“Well, this part will look like a cupcake!” Her father 
pressed down on the top, and the Jaw snapped shut, making 
Charlie jump, then giggle. 

Suddenly, her laughter stopped. She had been so 
distracted she’d forgotten. /’m not supposed to stand here. | 
don’t stand here! Her hands were trembling. How could she 
have forgotten? The corner. She looked at the ground, 
unable to lift her eyes, unable to move. One of her shoes 
was untied. There was a screw next to her foot and an old 
piece of tape, opaque with dirt. There was something behind 
her. 

“Charlie?” 

It was John. 

“Charlie!” 

She looked up at him. 

“Sorry. Just lost. This place ...” She stood and took a step 
forward, positioning herself in the place she remembered. 


She glanced behind her as if the memory might manifest. 
The corner was empty; there was nothing. She knelt again 
and put her hand on the ground, fishing around until she 
found a small screw in the bare dirt. She palmed it, then 
looked closer; there were small holes in the ground, exposed 
when she moved the loose dirt. Charlie ran her fingers over 
them, thoughtful. 

“Charlie, | have to tell you something.” There was 
something urgent in John’s voice. Charlie looked around the 
workshop and stood up. 

“Can we go outside?” she said. “I can’t breathe in here.” 

“Yeah, of course,” he said. He followed her out into the 
yard and back to the hide-and-seek tree. She was tired, a 
wrung-out exhaustion deep inside. She would be fine in a 
minute, but she wanted a place that held only silly 
childhood memories. She sat down in the grass, leaned 
against the trunk, and waited for John to talk. He settled 
himself cross-legged in front of her, a little stiffly, smoothing 
his pants, and she laughed. 

“Are you worried about getting dirty?” 

“Times change,” he said with a wry smile. 

“What do you have to tell me?” she asked, and his face 
grew serious. 

“| should have said something a long time ago,” he said. 
“| just—when something happens like that, you don’t trust 
your memory, don’t trust your own mind.” 

“What are you talking about?” Charlie asked. 

“Sorry.” He took a deep breath. “I saw someone that 
night, the night Michael disappeared.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“Remember when we were sitting at the table by the 
stage, and the animals started going crazy?” 


“Il remember,” Charlie said. It had been bizarre, their 
movements upsetting. They were moving too fast, bending 
and spinning, cycling through their limited, programmed 
moves over and over. They seemed frantic, panicked. 
Charlie was mesmerized. She should have been afraid of 
them, but she was not; she saw, in their juddering motion, a 
kind of desperation. She was reminded, for a moment, of 
dreams of running, dreams when the world depended on her 
going just ten steps forward, yet her body could only move 
in slow motion. Something was wrong, terribly wrong. 
Chaotically, violently, the animatronic animals onstage 
thrashed robotic limbs in all directions, their eyes rolling in 
their sockets. 

“What did you see?” Charlie said to John now, shaking 
her head as though she could rid it of the image. 

“There was another mascot,” he said. “A bear.” 

“Freddy,” Charlie interrupted without thinking. 

“No, not Freddy.” John took her hands as if trying to calm 
them both, but he let go before he spoke again. “It was 
standing right near us, next to our table, but it wasn’t 
looking at the stage like everyone else was. That technician 
came over, remember, and even he was just watching the 
animatronics—I guess he was trying to figure out what was 
happening. | looked over at the mascot, and it looked back 
at me...” He stopped. 

“John, what?” Charlie said impatiently. 

“Then the animatronics onstage stopped moving, and | 
looked over at them, and when we all turned back around, 
Michael was gone. And so was the mascot.” 

Charlie stared at him in disbelief. 

“You saw the kidnapper,” she said. 


“| didn’t know what | saw,” John said. “It was all chaos. | 
didn’t even think about it; | didn’t make the connection; it 
was just another animal at Freddy’s. | didn’t think about who 
might have been inside it. | was ... | was a kid, you know? 
You figure that the grown-ups already know everything you 
know.” 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. “I know. Do you remember 
anything? What the person looked like?” John was staring up 
at the sky, as if he were seeing something Charlie could not. 

“Yes,” he said. His voice was deliberate, steady. “The 
eyes. They were all | could see, but | still see them 
sometimes, like they’re right there in front of me. They were 
dead.” 

“What?” 

“They were dead, just dull and flat. Like, they still moved 
and blinked and saw, but whatever was behind them had 
died a long time ago.” He fell silent. 

It was growing dark. There was a bright, almost 
unnatural streak of pink across the western sky, and Charlie 
shivered. 

“We should go get the car,” she said. “It’s almost time to 
meet everyone.” 

“Yeah,” John said, but he didn’t move right away, still 
staring into the distance. 

“John? We have to go,” Charlie said. He seemed to come 
back to himself slowly. 

“Yeah,” he said. “We should go.” He got up and brushed 
off his pants, then grinned at Charlie. “Race you?” he said 
and took off running. Charlie chased after him, her feet 
pounding the asphalt, and her arms swinging free. 





Charlie and John were the last ones to the mall. When they 
pulled up, the others were gathered tight in a circle in front 
of Marla’s car, as if sharing a conspiracy. 

“Come on,” Marla said before they had walked all the 
way to the group. She was bouncing on the balls of her feet 
as if she were ready to run for the door of the abandoned 
building. Everyone but Charlie and John had changed their 
clothing, wearing jeans and T-shirts, things more suited for 
exploration, and she had a brief moment of feeling out of 
place. At /east | didn’t wear a dress, Charlie thought. 

“Let’s go,” she said. Marla’s impatience seemed to be 
contagious, or maybe it just gave Charlie an excuse to let 
her real feelings come to the surface. She wanted to show 
Freddy’s off to the others. 


“Hold up,” John said. He looked at Jessica. “Did you 
explain everything?” 

“| told them about the night guard,” she said. “What else 
is there?” He looked thoughtful for a moment. 

“Il guess nothing,” he said. 

“| brought more lights,” Carlton said and held up three 
flashlights of varying sizes. He tossed one to Jason, a small 
one with an elastic headband attached. Jason turned it on, 
fixed it around his head, and began moving enthusiastically 
in waves and circles, making the light bob and dance. 

“Shh,” Charlie said, even though he was not making any 
sound. 

“Jason,” Marla whispered, “turn it off. We can’t attract 
attention, remember?” 

Jason gleefully ignored them, spinning off into the 
parking lot like a top. 

“| told him if he’s not good he has to wait in the car,” 
Marla told Charlie quietly. “But now that we’re here, I’m not 
sure which place is creepier.” She eyed the bare branches 
overhead raging in the wind, threatening to reach down and 
grab them. 

“Or we can feed him to Foxy.” Charlie winked. She went 
to her trunk and hefted out the police flashlight, but she did 
not turn it on. Instead Carlton switched on two of his smaller 
lights and handed one to Jessica. 

They headed into the mall. Knowing where they were 
going and what was waiting for them there, Charlie, John, 
Jessica, and Carlton moved through the empty spaces with a 
sense of purpose, but the others kept stopping to look 
around. 

“Come on,” Jessica said impatiently as Lamar gazed up 
at the atrium dome. 


” 


“You can see the moon,” he said and pointed. Next to 
him, Marla nodded, mimicking his posture. 

“It’s beautiful,” she said, although she could not see it. 

From a distance, they heard footsteps echo in the 
emptiness. 

“Hey, hey, over here!” John hissed, and they hurried as 
quietly as they could. They could not run for fear of making 
noise, and so they walked, fast but careful, hugging the 
walls. They entered the black void of the department store, 
creeping along in the shadows until they reached the break 
in the wall. John held back the hanging plastic obscuring the 
opening as the others maneuvered around the scaffolding. 
Jason was slow, and Charlie put a hand on his shoulder to 
hurry him up. As she steered him to the opening, a strong 
beam of light swept into the room, scanning up and down 
the walls. They all ducked through the plastic and ran down 
the alley to where the others were crouched down against 
the wall. 

“He saw us!” Jason whispered, alarmed, running straight 
to his sister. 

“Shh,” Marla said. 

They waited. Charlie was next to John this time, and after 
that moment by the tree, whatever it was, she was very, 
almost uncomfortably, aware of him. They were not quite 
touching, but she seemed to know exactly where he was, an 
awkward sixth sense. She glanced at him, but his eyes were 
fixed on the opening to the hallway. They could hear the 
guard’s footsteps now, clear in the empty space, each one 
distinct. He was moving slowly, deliberately. Charlie closed 
her eyes, listening. She could tell where he was from the 
sound, she thought, getting closer, then farther, 
crisscrossing the open room like he was hunting for 


something. The steps came right up to the entrance of the 
alley and stopped. They all held their breaths. 

He knows, Charlie thought. But the steps started again, 
and she opened her eyes and saw the light receding. He 
was going away. 

They waited, still motionless, until they could no longer 
hear the tapping of his hard-soled shoes. She and John both 
stumbled a little as they stood, and she realized they had 
been leaning against each other without realizing it. She 
didn’t look at him; instead she set to work taking the 
heaviest things off the wooden shelf. 

“Will | be needing this?” Lamar asked, as Charlie handed 
him a bucket with a saw sticking out of it. 

“We have to move the shelf,” Jessica said. “Come on.” 

Jessica, Charlie, Carlton, and John got back into place and 
moved the shelf. Lamar tried to find a place to help, but 
there was not really room. Marla just waited. 

“I’m better suited to supervising,” she said when Charlie 
mock-glared at her. 

This time the screaming of the metal door was not as 
loud, as if it no longer protested their entrance quite so 
strongly. Still, Marla and Jason covered their ears. 

“You think that’s not going to bring the guard?” Marla 
hissed. 

Charlie shrugged. “Didn’t last time,” she said. 

“| know he saw us,” Jason said again. The others ignored 
him. “His flashlight went right over me,” he insisted. 

“It’s really okay, Jason,” Jessica said. “We thought he saw 
us last night, too, but it was fine.” Jason looked dubious, and 
Lamar bent over to his eye level. 

“Hey, Jason,” he said. “What do you think the guard 
would do if he saw us?” 


“Shoot us?” Jason whimpered, eyeing Lamar warily. 

“Worse,” Lamar said gravely. “Community service.” 

Jason wasn’t sure what it meant, but he held his eyes 
open wide as though it was something terrible. 

“Will you leave him alone?” Marla whispered, amused. 

“He didn’t see us,” Jason reassured himself, though 
clearly unconvinced. Charlie turned on the big light and 
shone it down the hallway. 

“Oh my!” Marla gasped as the first light streaked across 
the interior of the pizzeria. Suddenly it became real, and her 
face flushed with awe and fear. 

They went in one by one. The temperature seemed to 
drop as soon as they walked into the hall, and Charlie 
Shivered, but she did not feel ill at ease. She knew where 
they were now, and she knew what they would find. When 
they got to the dining room, Carlton spread his arms wide 
and twirled. 

“Welcome ... to Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza!” he said in a 
booming announcer’s voice. Jessica giggled, but the 
melodrama did not actually seem out of place. Marla and 
Lamar gaped at the room, awestruck. Charlie set the large 
flashlight on the ground, the beam facing up, and it lit up 
the main room in a dim and ghostly illumination. 

“Cool,” Jason said. His eyes fell on the merry-go-round, 
and he raced for it and jumped onto the back of a pony 
before anyone could stop him. He was too big for it, his 
sneakers dangling all the way to the ground. Charlie smiled. 
“How do | make it go?” he shouted. 

“Sorry, buddy,” John said. Jason climbed off, 
disappointed. 

“The arcade is over this way!” Carlton said, motioning to 
anyone who might follow. Marla went with him, while Jason 


fiddled hopefully with the carousel’s control box. Lamar had 
walked to the stage and was standing transfixed, staring up 
at the animals. Charlie went over to him. 

“| can’t believe they’re still here,” he said as she walked 
up. 

“Yeah,” she said. 

“I'd forgotten this was a real place.” Lamar smiled, for 
the first time resembling the little boy Charlie had once 
known. 

Charlie smiled back. There was something surreal about 
the place; she had certainly never told any of her school 
friends about it. She would not have known where to begin; 
worse, she would not have known where to stop. Jessica 
poked her head out from the retracted curtain at the side of 
the main stage, and they both startled. 

“What are you doing?” Lamar asked. 

“Exploring!” she said. “There’s nothing back here but a 
bunch of wires, though.” She disappeared into the folds of 
cloth again. After a moment they heard a thud as she 
jumped to the ground, and she came strolling over. 

“Do they work?” Lamar asked, pointing at the animals. 

“I! don’t know,” Charlie said. Truthfully, she had no idea 
how they worked. They had always just been, set to 
intermittent life by whatever alchemy her father performed 
in his workshop. “It doesn’t look like anything is missing. 
They should work,” she reluctantly added, though in her 
head she questioned the idea of trying to turn them on. 

“Hey!” Jessica exclaimed. She was kneeling by the stairs 
to the stage. “Everybody come here now!” 

Charlie went over, and Lamar followed. 

“What is it?” Charlie asked. 


“Look,” Jessica said, shining her little light. Though well 
hidden along the grain of the wood, there was a door inset 
into the wall of the stage. 

“How did we not see that?” Charlie wondered. 

“We weren't looking,” John said, staring intently at the 
small door. The whole group had gathered, and now Jessica 
looked around at them with a grin, put her hand on the little 
doorknob, and pulled. 

Magically, it opened. The door revealed a small, sunken 
room. Jessica shone the light around it. It was full of 
equipment; one wall was covered in TV screens. 

“Must be CCTV,” Lamar said. 

“Come on.” Jessica handed her flashlight to Charlie and 
swung her legs through the door. There was one deep step 
leading down into the room, which was no bigger than a 
large refrigerator turned on its side. 

“That’s a little too cramped for me; I'll keep looking 
around out here.” John saluted, then turned as though to 
stand guard. 

“This is like a clown car,” Marla remarked as she jostled 
against Charlie. The space was too cramped for all of them, 
but they crowded together; Jason sat on the step, feeling 
more comfortable by the exit. There were eight of the 
television screens across the wall, each with its own little 
panel of buttons and knobs, and sticking out beneath them 
was a panel, almost a table, covered in buttons. They were 
large and black, unlabeled, and spaced in an irregular 
series. The other wall was blank except for a single large 
switch by the door. 

“What's this do?” Jason said and put his hand on the 
switch. He hesitated just long enough for someone to stop 
him, then pulled it. 


The lights came on. 

“What?” Carlton looked to the others frantically. 

They all stared at one another in confused silence. Jason 
climbed up and poked his head out into the main room. 

“They're on out here, too, some of them, at least,” he 
said too loudly. 

“Why is there power?” Jessica whispered, reaching over 
Jason to pull the door closed again. 

“How is that possible?” Charlie said. “This place hasn’t 
been open in ten years.” 

“Cool.” Marla leaned forward, studying the monitors as 
though expecting some sort of answer to be revealed. 

“Turn on the TVs,” Jason said suddenly. “Il can’t reach.” 
Jessica flipped on the first TV, and static crackled across the 
screen. 

“Nothing?” Charlie asked impatiently. 

“Just a sec.” She twisted a dial, wiggling it back and forth 
until an image emerged. It was the stage, centered on 
Bonnie. The other animals weren't visible. Jessica turned on 
the rest of the TVs, adjusting them until the pictures 
became clear, although most were still poorly lit. 

“They still work,” Charlie said almost under her breath. 

“Maybe,” Jessica said. “Hey, someone go out there. See if 
the camera is live.” 

“Okay,” Marla said after a brief hesitation, wriggling her 
way to the exit and awkwardly climbing over Jason. A 
moment later she appeared on camera, onstage beside 
Bonnie. Marla waved. She appeared multicolored as the 
stage lights bathed her in purple, green, and yellow from 
different sides. 

“Can you see me?” she asked. 


“Yeah,” Carlton shouted. Lamar was staring at the 
buttons. 

“What do these do?” he said with a wicked grin, pressing 
one. 

Marla screamed. 

“Marla, are you okay?” Charlie shouted. “What 
happened?” 

Marla was standing still on the stage, but she had backed 
away from Bonnie and was staring at him as if he might 
bite. 

“He moved!” Marla yelled. “Bonnie moved! What did you 
do?” 

“Marla,” Jessica yelled, laughing, “it’s okay! We pushed a 
button!” 

Lamar pressed the button again, and they all watched 
the screen this time. Sure enough, Bonnie turned stiffly to 
one side. He pressed it again, and the rabbit swiveled back 
to face the absent audience again. 

“Try another one,” Carlton said. 

“Go ahead,” Lamar said and climbed out of the little 
room to join Marla onstage. He crouched down to inspect 
Bonnie’s feet. “They’re attached to a swiveling panel,” he 
called. 

“Yeah?” Jessica called back, not really listening. 

Carlton started pressing buttons as the rest of them 
watched the cameras. After a moment, Charlie left the room 
as well. 

“It’s too stuffy in here,” she explained. Jessica’s perfume 
and Carlton’s hair gel, both of which smelled nice enough 
out in the open, were starting to form a sickly miasma. She 
stepped out into the open to watch them experiment with 
the animals onstage. Most of the dining room was still dark. 


There were three colored spotlights suspended from the 
ceiling, aiming beams of purple, yellow, and green at the 
stage. The animals were cast now in unnatural colors, and 
dust in the beams of light shone like tiny stars, so many that 
it was difficult to see through them. The floor beneath the 
long tables was dusted with glitter that had fallen from the 
party hats, and as she looked around she noticed again the 
drawings that lined the walls of the place, all at the height 
of children’s eyes. 

They had always been there, and Charlie wondered now 
where her father had gotten the first ones when the 
restaurant opened. Had he used her own _ childish 
scribblings, or had he made them himself and stuck them 
up, forgeries to encourage actual children to display their 
art? The thought of her father hunched over his workbench, 
gripping an unsteady crayon with hands accustomed to 
manipulating microchips, made her want to giggle. She 
noticed the flashlight still on in the center of the room and 
went to switch it off. Don’t waste the battery, she said in her 
head, in chorus with Aunt Jen’s voice. 

She turned her attention to the stage. It looked like the 
others had gotten Chica and Bonnie to go through a series 
of small, specific movements. They could each swivel their 
entire bodies back and forth, and their hands, feet, and 
heads could be moved in various directions, but each 
movement was separate. 

Charlie went back to the control room and stuck her head 
in. “Can you make them do the dance?” she asked. 

“I! don’t know how,” Carlton said, leaning back away from 
the monitors. “All of this must have been used to program 
the dances. | don’t think someone was in here manually 


controlling everything during the shows.” He shook his head 
with certainty. “That would have been impossible.” 

“Huh,” Charlie said. 

“Everyone, quiet,” Marla called out, and they all fell 
silent. 

For a long moment there was no sound, then Lamar said, 
“What?” 

Marla frowned, tilting her head to the side, listening for 
something. “I thought | heard something,” she said finally. 
“It was like ... pings of a music box?” Her mouth barely 
moved as she spoke. “It’s gone.” 

“Why isn’t Freddy moving?” Charlie asked. 

“lI don’t know,” Carlton said. “I can’t find the controls for 
him.” 

“Hmm,” Jessica said, tapping the monitors. “These 
Cameras don’t show the whole place.” 

Charlie peered at them, but they were mixed up, in no 
logical order. She couldn’t piece together a picture of the 
whole restaurant. 

“There’s three cameras on the stage, one on each 
animal, but there should be one on the whole thing,” Jessica 
was saying. “There’s the entrance to the kitchen, but not 
the kitchen itself, and you can’t see the hallway and the 
room with the little stage we were at last night.” 

“Maybe the cameras are just in the main room?” Carlton 
suggested. 

“Nope,” said Jessica. “There are cameras everywhere out 
there.” 

“So?” Carlton said. 

“So there’s got to be another control room!” Jessica said 
triumphantly. “Maybe down the hall by the other stage.” 


Charlie went back out into the main room again. She was 
feeling restless, less excited by the discoveries than the 
others, though she was not sure why. She watched the 
stage. Carlton was still playing with the buttons, Bonnie and 
Chica jerking in small, disjointed motions as Freddy Fazbear 
remained motionless, his eyes half-closed and his mouth 
Slack, slightly open. 

“Hey,” Lamar said suddenly. “Marla. The music. | hear it 
now.” Everyone was silent again, then Marla shook her 
head. 

“Creepy,” she said, more excited this time, rubbing her 
hands together as though they were sharing campfire 
stories. Lamar looked thoughtfully at Freddy. 

“Let’s go find the other control room,” Jessica said, 
emerging with a determined look on her face. 

“Okay!” Marla jumped from the stage to join them, and 
they started scanning the rest of the stage, looking for a 
second door. 

“I’m staying in here,” Jason called from the first room. 
“This is so cool!” Chica swiveled back and forth rapidly on 
the stage as he pushed her button repeatedly. Lamar went 
to join Jason. 

“Okay, my turn,” he said, leaning on the door. He went 
in, not waiting for Jason’s response. 

Charlie stayed where she was, still staring at Freddy, 
frozen in the middle of his act. John came up next to her, 
and she felt a flash of irritation; she did not want to be 
cajoled into joining in the search. He stood there for a 
moment, looking at Freddy, then leaned in close to her and 
whispered, “I’m counting to one hundred. You’d better 
hide.” 


Surprised out of her thoughts, she looked at him for a 
moment, her irritation broken. He winked at her, then 
covered his eyes. It was absurd, it was childish, and in that 
moment it was the only thing she wanted to do. Slightly 
giddy, Charlie took off, looking for a place to hide. 

Jason pushed the series of buttons again with increasing 
frustration. “I’m bored now,” he announced. 

“How can you be bored?” Lamar said, wide-eyed. 

“They aren’t working anymore.” Jason continued to press 
buttons, no longer watching the monitors. 

Lamar studied the monitor. Bonnie’s head was up and 
turned to the side, his eyes appearing to watch the camera. 
“Well, go find your sister then,” he told Jason. 

“| don’t need her permission to be bored!” Impatiently, 
Jason climbed up and out of the control room. 

“Everyone is so sensitive,” Lamar muttered, suddenly 
realizing he was alone in the control room. He climbed out, 
but Jason was already gone. 

Jessica was leading the exploration party, heading 
toward the little stage they had discovered the night before. 
Marla looked back and saw Jason skipping to catch up just 
before they disappeared into the long hall. 

“Hey, be careful!” she called over her shoulder as Jason 
branched off in his own direction. Lamar caught up to the 
group and followed them on their way into the hall. The 
main dining room was empty now, though Jason could hear 
Charlie’s and John’s playful shouts echoing from the party 
rooms that extended off the main building. Left alone, Jason 
headed straight for the arcade. 

It was more dimly lit than the rest of the place, and 
without power the arcade machines appeared as towering 
black monoliths in a forgotten graveyard. The air was stale 


and thin. Jason went to the nearest console and pressed a 
few buttons, some stuck with age, but nothing happened. 
Plug it in, duh. He ducked behind the games to check, 
but even though the mounds of wires seemed impossibly 
tangled, it looked like they were plugged in. Maybe there’s a 
switch for the whole room? He started checking the walls. 
There was no obvious switch, but as Jason scanned the 
walls, he became distracted by the children’s drawings 
taped in clusters. Jason was too young to have any 
memories of his own from being at Freddy’s; even Hurricane 
itself was no more than a hazy set of impressions. But 
something about the pictures brought up a sense of 
nostalgia. They were all the same, really, the kinds of 
drawings he and every other kid had done—figures with 
circles for bodies and sticks for arms, in a multitude of 
colors. Only a few details showed which figures were the 
animals: Chica with her beak, Bonnie with his ears. It 
seemed like there had been a bit more attention paid to the 
drawings of Freddy Fazbear. They were a little better; the 
children had been a little more careful to make the details 
right. Jason found himself looking at one drawing in 
particular. It was the same as the others, maybe a little 
better: Bonnie the Bunny hugging a child. There was no 
name at the bottom. Jason took the picture off the wall, 
uncertain why this one in particular interested him so much. 
John burst into the room with a wide grin and a deep 
breath, but then, seeing that it was only Jason inside, he 
quickly returned to a stoic demeanor. “What’s up?” He 
nodded his head, playing it cool, then casually stepped 
away before silently returning to a sprint. 
Playing hide-and-seek like babies, Jason thought. / hope | 
never fall in love. 


He looked back down at the drawing and squinted as 
though not seeing correctly. The child was now facing away 
from Bonnie. Jason stared for a long moment. Wasn’t he 
hugging Bonnie before? He looked out at the main room, but 
Marla was out of sight, looking for the control room. Jason 
folded the drawing carefully and put it in his pocket. It was 
suddenly apparent how quiet it had become outside. Jason 
stepped out timidly and peeked into the dining room. 
“Guys?” he whispered, looking back once, then ventured out 
to find the group. 


* K OX 


Jessica, Lamar, Carlton, and Marla were still creeping slowly 
through the other half of the building. The spotlights from 
the dining room didn’t reach this far, only accenting edges 
and corners or specks of glitter. Jessica scanned the wall 
with her flashlight, looking for breaks in the plaster, and 
motioned to Marla to do the same. 

“We have to check for a hidden door,” she said. 

“The last one wasn’t really hidden,” Carlton pointed out. 

“Yeah,” Jessica conceded, but she kept her light on the 
wall, clearly not ready to give up the hunt. They passed two 
bathrooms they had not noticed the night before. 

“Do you think the plumbing still works?” Carlton said. “1 
really need to pee.” 

“What are you, five years old? | don’t want to hear that.” 
Jessica rolled her eyes and walked faster. 

When they got to the room with the little stage, everyone 
stopped. Marla and Lamar went closer to the stage, drawing 
together slightly as if unaware they were doing it. Even 
though Carlton and Jessica had been here the night before, 


it was as though they were seeing it anew through Marla’s 
and Lamar’s eyes. They still had not seen what was behind 
the curtain, Carlton realized suddenly. 

“| remember these posters,” Lamar said. 

“| remember this, too,” Marla said, pointing to the sign 
that read OUT OF ORDER Strung across the stage. “My whole 
life I’ve felt uneasy when I’ve seen that phrase, even if it’s 
just at a vending machine.” She laughed insincerely. 

“| know what you mean,” Lamar said softly, but before he 
could go on, Carlton interrupted. 

“Found it.” 

“Maybe,” Jessica amended. There was a door, close-set 
into the wall like the one below the stage—not quite hidden, 
but not meant to be noticed. It was painted black, like the 
walls of the room. Jessica turned the knob and pulled, but it 
was stuck tight. 

“Locked?” Lamar said. 

“I don’t think so.” 

“Let me try,” Marla said. She grabbed the knob and 
yanked, and it came open, sending her stumbling back. 

“Impressive!” Lamar said. 

“Yeah, well, taking care of Jason makes me tough.” Marla 
grinned as she knelt down to squeeze through the small 
door. 

It was almost the same as the first room: a set of eight 
TV screens and a large panel of unmarked black buttons. 
Carlton fumbled to find the master switch, reaching his hand 
into a dark corner. Then, with a click, the power came on, 
and a soft buzzing sound filled the room. Rich, bizarre reds 
and blues began streaming in under the door from the stage 
lights outside. Jessica and Carlton began switching the 


televisions on; they fiddled with the knobs until they were 
showing pictures, though most were very dark. From here 
they could see a long shot of the main stage, just as in the 
other room, but the rest of the cameras were showing other 
places and angles. While the first control room had only 
shots of the main dining room, here they could see into 
other areas of the restaurant—the private party rooms, 
which were set up with glittery decorations for events that 
would never happen; hallways; an office; and even what 
looked like a storage closet. The room behind them was 
visible as well, the camera trained on the OuT OF ORDER Sign, 
now lit with otherworldly shades, and the curtain behind it. 
On one screen they could see Jason ducking back into the 
arcade. 

“Maybe | should go get him, 
responded. 

Carlton started pressing buttons. Spotlights appeared 
and vanished on the stage in the main dining room as he 
did, illuminating first one animal and then another, lighting 
up empty spaces where someone might once have stood. 
He flipped a switch, and it seemed for a moment that 
nothing happened. Then Lamar started laughing, pointing at 
one of the screens. The pizza decorations lining the walls 
were spinning wildly, as though they might leap off and go 
rolling away. 

“| forgot they used to do that,” Lamar said as Carlton 
brought them slowly to a halt. 

There was a large black dial to one side of the buttons, 
and Carlton spun it, but it seemed to do nothing. 

“Let me try,” Lamar said. He elbowed Carlton to the side 
and pressed another button. There was a _ high-pitched 


” 


Marla said, but no one 


whine; they all jumped, and it quickly faded down to a static 
hum. Lamar pressed the button again, and the sound was 
gone. 

“| guess we know what turns the speakers on,” Carlton 
said. 

“! bet we could figure out how to play the music,” Jessica 
said. She reached forward and pushed something else, and 
stage lights popped up while the main lights dimmed. The 
figures on the main stage suddenly stood out a little, 
commanding attention. She pushed it again, and the lights 
faded back to normal. 

“| love that,” Carlton said. 

“What?” asked Marla. 

“Stage lights,” he said. “One switch, and it’s like a whole 
‘nother world up there.” 

Another button flickered the stage lights on and off in the 
room behind them, while another started and stopped the 
little merry-go-round, its tinkling music grinding too slowly, 
like the ride itself was trying to remember how the song 
went. They managed to get the speakers on again without 
the feedback whine, but there was still only static. 

“| have an idea,” Jessica said, pushing to the front of the 
group. She switched on the static again, then started 
turning the knob back and forth. The hum grew lower in 
pitch, then higher, responding to her adjustments. 

“Progress,” Carlton said. 

“It’s still just static,” Marla said, unimpressed. Jessica 
turned it lower again, then snatched her hand from the dial 
like she had been bitten and punched the button, shutting 
the speakers off. 

“What?” Marla asked. 


Jessica remained motionless, her hands still suspended in 
the air. 

“What happened? Did it shock you?” Carlton asked. 

“It sounded like a voice,” Jessica answered. 

“What did it say?” Marla asked, apparently interested 
again. 

“| don’t know. Let me try again.” 

She turned the speaker on again, calling forth the static, 
and lowered the hum as they all listened, intent on the 
sound. As it sank to a lower register, just below the range of 
a human voice, they all heard it: grinding and broken words, 
almost too slow and distorted to be considered speech. 
They looked at one another. 

“What on earth?” Marla said. 

“No, it’s just random static,” Lamar said. He reached for 
the controls and dialed the pitch back up slowly. For another 
fleeting moment, there was a purposeful sound. 

“That sounded like singing,” Carlton said. 

“No,” Lamar said, sounding more unsure this time. 

“Do it again,” Marla said. Lamar did, but this time the 
static was empty. 

“Is that Charlie?” Marla suddenly became focused on a 
blurry figure moving down the dark hall toward them, sliding 
along the wall as though to remain unnoticed. 


* OK OX 


Charlie was hurrying, almost skipping, and trying to find 
another place to hide. She glanced behind her, vaguely 
suspecting that John might be cheating. She moved through 
the darkness and toward the colorful glow of the small stage 
curtain, which was throwing eerie reds and blues onto the 


tables and party hats. Going down this passage had always 
felt like a long and perilous journey, one not to be made 
alone. She kept her gaze fixed behind her, letting the wall 
beside her guide her step. She knew John was close, 
probably creeping up on her in the dark. Suddenly she 
backed into something, stopping short. She had been 
moving faster than she thought, or more likely the hall was 
not as long as she remembered. 

She saw his shadow at the end of the hall—if he turned 
his head, he would see her. Without thinking, Charlie 
climbed up onto the platform that she had bumped into and 
ducked behind the curtain, tucking herself between the wall 
and a large, bulky prop, trying not to breathe. 

“Charlie?” he called, still far away. “Charlie!” Charlie felt 
her heartbeat quicken. There had been boys she liked, now 
and then, but this was something different. She wanted him 
to find her, but not quite yet. As she waited, her eyes 
adjusted to the darkness, and she was able to make out the 
Shape of the curtain and the edge of the stage. She looked 
up at the object in front of her. 

No. Her body shuddered, then froze. 

It was standing over her. It was the thing from her 
father’s workshop, the misshapen thing that hung in the 
corner, shaken by random convulsions as its eyes burned 
silver. Does it hurt? Now it was still, and its eyes were blank 
and dull. It was staring straight ahead, insensate, and its 
arm with its hook hung useless at its side. She recognized 
his eyes, but he was somehow worse now, encased in 
hollow body parts and matted with red fur, with a stench of 
oil and glue. He had a name now; they called him Foxy. But 
she knew better. 


Charlie shrank away, pressing against the wall. Her heart 
was racing, and her breath was shallow, too fast. Her arm 
had been touching its leg, and now she felt a sudden 
itchiness from it, like she had been contaminated. She 
wiped her hand violently against her shirt as she began to 
panic. 

Run. 

She sprang away from it, pushing off the wall to get 
away, to move before it saw her, but the edge of the stage 
caught her foot. She stumbled forward, momentarily 
becoming entangled in the curtain. She struggled to get free 
when suddenly the thing’s arm jerked up, and the hook 
Slashed at her arm. She ducked away too late, and it cut 
her. The pain was shocking, like freezing water. She tripped 
backward and felt herself falling for long seconds, and then 
she was caught. 

“Charlie? Are you okay?” 

It was John; he had caught her. She tried to nod, but she 
was shaking. She looked at her arm. There was a cut above 
the elbow, almost four inches long. It was bleeding freely, 
and she covered it with her hand, the gaps between her 
fingers welling over as her own blood leaked through. 

“What happened?” Marla asked, rushing up behind her. 
“Charlie, I’m so sorry, | must have hit a button that caused it 
to move. Are you okay?” 

Charlie nodded, a little less shaky. “I’m fine,” she said. 
“It’s not that bad.” She moved her arm_ around 
experimentally. “See? No nerve damage,” she said. “I'll be 
fine.” 

Carlton, Jessica, and Lamar came hurrying out of the 
control room. 

“We should take her to the E.R.,” Carlton said. 


“I’m fine,” Charlie insisted. She stood up, refusing John’s 
help, and braced herself on the stage for a moment. She 
heard her Aunt Jen’s voice in her head: How much blood 
have you lost? You don’t need to go to a hospital. She could 
move her arm just fine, and she would not bleed to death 
from this. She felt dizzy, though. 

“Charlie, you look like a ghost,” John said. “We need to 
get you out of here.” 

“Okay,” she said. Her thoughts were scattered, and the 
injury hurt less than it should have. She took deep breaths 
as they headed for the exit, grounding herself. John handed 
her a piece of cloth, and she put it to the cut to slow the 
bleeding. 

“Thanks,” she said, looking at him. Something was 
missing. “Was that your tie?” she asked, and he shrugged. 

“Do | look like a tie person?” 

She grinned. “I thought it looked good on you.” 

“Jason!” Marla yelled as they passed the arcade. “Move 
it, or I'm leaving you behind!” 

Jason ran to catch up. 

“Is Charlie okay?” he said anxiously. Marla caught her 
breath and put her arm around him. 

“She’s fine,” she reassured him. 

They walked briskly down the same corridor that they 
entered through. Jason looked back as he was being guided 
out, studying the pictures on the wall once more before 
losing sight of them. The colored lights from the stage were 
fading, and the flashlight was throwing shapes and shadows 
on everything, making the drawings difficult to see, but 
Jason could swear he saw the figures moving in the pictures. 

They all hurried back through the empty building and out 
to the parking lot, not keeping watch for the guard. When 


they made it out to the car, Lamar, who had grabbed the big 
flashlight, flipped it on and shone it at Charlie’s arm. She 
looked down at the cut. 

“Do you need stitches?” Marla asked. “Il am so sorry, 
Charlie.” 

“We were all being careless. It’s not your fault,” Charlie 
said. She knew she sounded annoyed, but she didn’t mean 
to; her voice was tight and clipped with pain. The shock had 
worn off, but that meant the wound had begun to hurt. “It’s 
fine,” Charlie said, and after a long moment the others gave 
in somewhat reluctantly. 

“We should at least get you some stuff to clean that up 
and bandage it,” Marla said, wanting to do something to 
atone, however small. 

“There’s a twenty-four-hour drugstore just off the main 
road,” Carlton offered. 

“Charlie, why don’t you go with Marla, and I'll drive your 
car back to the motel?” Jessica said. 

“I’m fine,” Charlie protested halfheartedly, but she 
handed Jessica the keys. “You’re a good driver, right?” 

Jessica rolled her eyes. “People from New York know how 
to drive, Charlie.” 

John lingered a moment as Charlie was getting into 
Marla’s car. She smiled at him. 

“I’m fine,” she said. “I'll see you tomorrow.” He looked at 
her like there was something more he wanted to say, but he 
just nodded and left. 

“Okay,” Marla said. “To the drugstore!” 

Charlie twisted in her seat to look at Jason. “Did you have 
fun?” she asked. 

“The games don’t work,” he said, obviously preoccupied. 


The drugstore was only a few minutes away. “You stay in 
the car,” Marla commanded to Jason as they pulled to a 
stop. 

“Don’t leave me out here,” Jason pleaded. 

“I told you to stay,” she repeated, a little confused by the 
fear in his voice. He didn’t answer, and she and Charlie 
headed inside. 

As soon as they were gone, Jason pulled the drawing out 
of his pocket. He held it up under the faint lights of the 
parking lot to examine. It had not changed back: Bonnie the 
Bunny was reaching toward a child, who was facing away 
from him. Curious, Jason scraped at the crayon lines with his 
fingernail. The wax came off easily, leaving its trace on the 


paper. 


* OK OX 


As soon as Marla passed into the fluorescent-lit, air- 
controlled drugstore, she sighed and put her hands to her 
temples. “Oh, he’s such a little brat,” she said. 

“I like him,” Charlie said honestly. She was still using 
John’s tie to stanch the bleeding, and now, in brighter light, 
she peeled it back to see the cut. The bleeding had almost 
stopped; it was not as bad as it had first appeared, though 
the tie was irreparably ruined. “Hey,” she said. “How come 
you brought Jason, anyway?” 

Marla didn’t answer right away, setting her sights on the 
first-aid aisle and heading for it. 

“Here we are,” she said. “What do you think, gauze?” 

“Sure, but don’t call me Gauze.” Charlie leaned into 
Marla but was ignored. 


“Antiseptic,” Marla continued, grabbing the items. “The 
thing is,” she said, “so Jason’s dad and our mom have been 
married since before he was born. | mean, obviously. And 
they’re probably getting divorced. | know about it, but Jason 
doesn’t.” 

“Oh no,” Charlie said. 

“They’re fighting all the time,” Marla went on, “and it 
scares him, you know? | mean, my dad left when | was still a 
little kid, so | grew up with that; | was used to it. Plus, | got 
to have a great stepdad. But for him, it’s gonna feel like the 
end of the world. And they’re sure not doing anything to 
make it easier—they’re fighting right in front of us. So | 
didn’t want to leave him alone with that for a week.” 

“I’m so sorry, Marla,” Charlie said. 

“Yeah, it’s okay,” Marla said. “I’m leaving in a year 
anyway. I’m just worried about the brat out there.” 

“He’s really not a brat,” Charlie said, and Marla grinned. 

“| know; he’s pretty great, right? | kinda like having him 
around.” 

They paid for the supplies. The clerk, a teenage boy, 
didn’t bat an eye at Charlie’s moderately blood-spattered 
appearance. Outside, they sat on the hood of the car. Marla 
started to open the bottle of antiseptic, but Charlie held out 
a hand for it. 

“I can do it myself,” she said. Marla looked like she was 
about to argue, but she swallowed whatever she was about 
to say and handed Charlie the bottle and a piece of gauze. 
As Charlie awkwardly cleaned her arm, Marla smiled 
impishly. 

“Speaking of people we like having around, are you 
having fun with John?” 


“Ow! That stings. And | don’t know what you mean,” 
Charlie said primly, suddenly putting all her attention on her 
task. 

“You do, too. He’s following you around like a little puppy, 
and you are loving it.” 

Charlie bit back a smile. “How about you and Lamar?” 
she retorted. 

“Me and who now?” Marla said. “Here.” She held out a 
hand for the bloody gauze, and Charlie handed it to her, 
reaching for a clean strip. “You’re going to have to let me 
tape it,” Marla said. Charlie nodded and held the gauze in 
place as Marla reached for the tape. 

“Come on,” Charlie went on. “Il see the way you look at 
him.” 

“Nope!” Marla smoothed down the last piece of tape and 
put everything back in the bag. 

“Seriously,” Charlie said as they got back into the car. 
“You're adorable together. And your names are anagrams of 
each other. Marla and Lamar! It’s meant to be!” Both 
laughing, they headed back to the motel. 





When they got to the motel, Jessica was already there— 
and so was John. He stood up when Charlie walked in. 

“l was worried about you. | thought maybe | could sleep 
on the floor?” He waited nervously for her reaction, as 
though he had realized only upon seeing her that he might 
have overstepped her boundaries. 

On another day, in another place, Charlie might have 
been annoyed by his excessive concern. But here, in 
Hurricane, she was glad to have it. We should all be 
together, she thought. /t’s safer. She wasn’t really afraid, 
but unease still clung to her like cobwebs, and John’s 
presence had been a calming one ever since they arrived. 
He was still looking at her, waiting for a response, and she 
smiled at him. 


“As long as you don’t mind sharing the floor with Jason,” 
she said. 

He grinned. “Just let me have a pillow and I'll be fine.” 
Marla tossed him one, and he stretched elaborately, set it 
on the ground, and lay down. 

They all went to bed almost immediately. Charlie was 
exhausted; now that her injury had been cleaned and 
bound, the adrenaline of the night left her body all at once, 
leaving her drained and a little shaky. She didn’t even 
bother changing into pajamas; she just collapsed on the bed 
next to Jessica and was asleep in seconds. 


* OK OX 


Charlie woke just after dawn, when the sky was still pale 
and a little pink. She looked around the room. The others 
wouldn’t be up for hours, she suspected, but she was too 
alert to try to fade back into sleep. She grabbed her shoes 
and, stepping over Jason’s and John’s sleeping bodies, went 
outside. The motel was set a little way back off the road, 
trees spread thickly around and behind it. Charlie sat down 
on the curb to put her shoes on, wondering if she could go 
for a walk in the woods without getting lost. The air was 
crisp, and she felt renewed and energized by the brief 
night’s sleep. Her arm hurt, a dull and pulsing pain that kept 
drawing her attention, but it had not bled through the 
bandages. Charlie usually found it easy to ignore pain when 
She knew she was not in danger from it. The woods were 
inviting, and she decided to risk getting lost. 

As she was about to stand, John sat down beside her. 

“Morning,” he said. His clothes were rumpled from his 
night on the motel floor, and his hair was a mess. Charlie 


held back a laugh. “What?” he said. She shook her head. 

“You look a little like your old self today,” she said. He 
looked down at himself and shrugged. 

“Clothes don’t make the man. What are you doing up so 
early?” 

“Il don’t know, couldn’t sleep. What about you?” 

“Somebody stepped on me.” 

Charlie winced. “Sorry,” she said, and he laughed. 

“I’m just kidding. | was awake.” 

“| was going to go for a walk,” she said, pointing at the 
tree line. “Out there, somewhere. Do you want to come?” 

“Yeah, definitely.” 

They headed into the woods, and John hung back for a 
moment and surreptitiously retucked his shirt, trying to 
smooth out the wrinkles. Charlie pretended not to notice. 

There was no path, and so they made their way through 
the trees at random, glancing back now and then to be sure 
they could still make out the motel parking lot. John 
stumbled over a fallen branch, and Charlie reached out with 
her good arm to catch him before he fell. 

“Thanks,” he said. “Strong arm, too.” 

“Well, you caught me yesterday, so it’s only fair that | 
catch you back. Now we’re even,” she said. She looked 
around. The motel was scarcely in sight, and she felt 
concealed, made safe by the woods. She could say anything 
here, and it would be all right. She leaned back against a 
tree, picking idly at the bark behind her. “You know Freddy’s 
wasn’t the first restaurant?” She said it abruptly, surprising 
herself, and John looked at her quizzically, like he had not 
quite heard her. She didn’t want to say it again, but she 
forced herself to. “Freddy’s, it wasn’t my dad’s first 


restaurant. There was a diner, a little one. It was before my 
mom left.” 

“| had no idea,” John said slowly. “Where was it?” 

“| don’t Know. It’s one of those memories from when 
you're a little kid, you know? You only remember the things 
that are right around you. | remember the linoleum on the 
kitchen floor; it was this black-and-white diamond pattern, 
but | don’t remember where the restaurant was, or what it 
was Called.” 

“Yeah,” John said. “We took a vacation to a theme park 
when | was, like, three, and all | remember is the backseat 
of the car. So were they there?” His voice dropped a little 
quieter when he said it, almost reflexively. Charlie nodded. 

“Yeah. There was a bear and a rabbit, | think. Sometimes 
the details get mixed up in my head. They’re not like normal 
memories,” she said, needing him to understand the story’s 
defects before she told him the rest. “It’s like when you 
have a realistic dream, and in the morning you’re not sure if 
it really happened or not. It’s just impressions, little 
Snatches of time. It’s ...”. She trailed off. She wasn’t 
explaining it right; she was choosing all the wrong words. 
She was reaching back too far in her memory, to a time 
when she did not yet speak. It was a time when she did not 
have the words to name the things she saw, and so now, 
when she tried to recall them, the words could never be 
right. 

She looked at John. He was watching her patiently, 
waiting for her to go on. She wanted to tell him this story 
from her life that she had never told. It was not even a 
story, not really, just something that nagged at the edge of 
her mind, something flashing by randomly in the corner of 
her eye. She was not entirely certain it was real, and so she 


told no one. She wanted to tell John, because she wanted to 
speak it to another person, because he looked at her with 
trusting eyes and she knew he would listen to and believe 
her. Because he had cared for her a long time ago, because 
he had caught her when she fell, and he had come here to 
sleep and keep watch all night. And, thought a pragmatic, 
Slightly cruel part of her, because he was not part of her real 
life. She could tell him this, tell him anything, and when she 
returned home, it would be as though it had never 
happened. She wanted suddenly to touch him, have 
confirmation that he was really there, that this was not 
another dream. She reached out her hand to him, and, 
Surprised but glad, he took it. He stayed where he was, as if 
afraid that moving in closer would scare her. They stayed 
that way for a moment, and then she let go, and she told 
him the story the way she spoke it in her head, the 
memories of a small child mixing with the things she had 
come to understand as she grew older. 

There was another restaurant, rustic and small, with red 
checkered cloths on the tables, and a kitchen you could see 
into from the dining area, and they all were there together. 
Her father and her mother and us. When Charlie was very, 
very young, she was never alone. There was Charlie, and 
there was a little boy, a little boy so close to Charlie that 
remembering him was like remembering a part of herself. 
They were always together; she learned to say we before 
she learned to say /. 

They played together on the floor of the kitchen, 
sometimes drawing pictures while hiding under a hardwood 
table. She remembered the shuffling of feet and the 
Shadows of customers walking by. Light was broken by a 
Slowly turning fan and thrown across the floor in ribbons. 


She remembered the smell of an ashtray and the hearty 
laughter of adults lost in a good story while their children 
played. 

Very often she would hear her father’s laugh echoing 
from a distant corner as he talked with customers. When 
Charlie pictured him laughing like that now it was with a 
little ache, a sucking feeling in the center of her chest, 
because his eyes were bright and his smile was easy and 
because he wanted them all to be a part of the restaurant, 
to share his work freely. Because he was not afraid to let his 
children roam and explore. He was yet untouched by grief, 
and so while he looked a little like the father she truly 
remembered, he was not the same man at all. 

Charlie was looking down at the ground as she talked, at 
the dirt and stones and cracked remains of leaves, and her 
hand was at her back, stripping bark from the tree. Does 
that hurt the tree? she thought, and forced her hands away, 
knotting them in front of her. 

The restaurant was open until late at night, and so when 
they began to falter, Charlie and the little boy would crawl 
into the pantry with blankets and soft toys to sleep until it 
was time to close. She remembered using sacks of flour as 
pillows, big bags almost as long as they were tall. They 
would snuggle down together and whisper words of 
nonsense that meant deep things only to the two of them, 
and Charlie would drift into sleep, half listening to the warm 
sounds of the restaurant, the clank of dishes and the 
murmur of grown-up talk, and the sound of the bear and the 
rabbit as they danced to their chiming tunes. 

They loved the animals, the yellowish-brown bear and 
the matching rabbit, who wandered the restaurant, dancing 
and singing for the customers, and sometimes just for 


Charlie and the little boy. They sometimes moved stiffly and 
mechanically, and sometimes’ with fluid, human 
movements, and while the boy liked the animals best when 
they acted like people, Charlie liked them the other way. 
Their stilted movements, their lifeless eyes, and their 
occasional glitches fascinated her: They acted alive, but 
were not. The narrow yet bottomless chasm between those 
things, alive and not-alive, enthralled her, though she would 
never have been able to explain why. 

“| think they were costumes,” Charlie said now, still 
looking down at the ground. “The animals weren’t always 
robots; the bear and the bunny were costumes, and 
sometimes people wore them, and sometimes my father put 
it onto one of his robots, and you could always tell which it 
was by the way they danced.” 

Charlie stopped. There was more, but she could not bring 
herself to speak. There was something else that made her 
lock down her mind and force the memory away, the part 
that made her unwilling to ask Aunt Jen for answers, 
because she was afraid of what those answers might be. 
Charlie had not dared to look at John the whole time she 
was talking, staring only at the ground, at her hands, at her 
sneakers. Now she did look at him, and he was rapt, 
seeming almost to be holding his breath. He waited, not 
wanting to speak until he was sure she was finished. 

“That’s all | remember,” she said at last, even though it 
was alie. 

“Wait, who was the little boy?” John said. 

Charlie shook her head, frustrated that he had not 
understood. 

“He was mine,” she said. “Il mean, he was my brother. We 
were the same.” She was speaking childishly, as if the 


memory had taken hold of her, forcing her to regress. She 
cleared her throat. “Sorry,” she said, speaking more slowly, 
trying to choose her words with care. “I think he was my 
twin brother.” 

She saw John open his mouth, about to ask the question, 
What happened to him? But there must have been 
something in her face, something warning, because he held 
it back and said instead, “Do you think that place was 
around here? | mean, | guess it could have been anywhere. 
Another state, even.” 

“1 don’t know,” Charlie said slowly, looking over her 
shoulders, then up at the trees. “This all feels the same. It 
feels like | could walk around any corner and it could be 
there.” Her voice began to break. “Il want to find it,” she 
added suddenly, and as soon as she said it, it was what she 
wanted to do. 

“Well, what do you remember about it?” John said 
enthusiastically, almost lunging forward like an eager dog 
on a lead. He must have been dying to go looking from the 
moment she mentioned the place. Charlie smiled but shook 
her head. 

“| really don’t remember much,” she said. “I don’t know 
how much help | can actually be; like | said, the things | 
remember are just little scraps, they’re not information. It’s 
like a picture book.” She closed her eyes, trying to see the 
place in her mind’s eye. “The floor would shake.” She lifted 
her head as the thought became clear. “A train?” she asked 
as though John would know. “I remember this thunderous 
sound every day; it was the biggest sound I’d ever heard. | 
don’t mean loud, | mean you could feel it in your whole 
body, like it was rumbling right through your chest.” 


“It must have been close to some tracks, then, right?” 
John said. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said with a spark of hope. “There was a 
tree out in front,” she went on. “It looked like an old, angry 
monster, hunched forward and wizened, with two giant, 
gnarled branches reaching out like arms. Whenever we left 
for the night, | hid my face in my father’s shirt so | wouldn’t 
have to see it as we walked by.” 

“What else?” John said. “Were there stores, or other 
restaurants?” 

“No. | mean, | don’t think so. I’m sorry.” She scratched 
her head. “It’s gone.” 

“It’s not enough,” John said, a little frustrated. “It could 
be anywhere, a train and a tree. There must be something 
else you can remember. Anything?” 

“No,” Charlie said. The more she pushed herself to 
remember, the harder it got. She was grasping blindly, and 
it was like trying to get hold of living creatures, as if the 
memories saw her coming and slipped away. 

She tossed out fragments as she managed to catch 
them: the tablecloths, red-and-white checked, and made of 
real cloth, not plastic. She remembered grabbing at one, 
unsteady on her feet, and the whole table setting falling 
down on top of her, plates and glasses shattering around 
her as she covered her head. Charlotte, are you okay? Her 
father’s voice seemed clearer than ever. 

There was a squeaky floorboard in the corner of the diner 
that Charlie liked to push on, making it sing as if it made 
music. There was a picnic table out back where they used to 
sit in the sun, one leg of it sinking in the soft ground. There 
was the song her parents used to sing in the car whenever 
they came home from a trip; they would burst into it when 


they were a little way from home, and then they’d start 
laughing as if they had done something clever. 

“It’s nothing helpful,” Charlie said. “Just kid stuff.” She 
felt a little light-headed. She had spent so many years 
avoiding these memories; her mind shied away as if from 
Snakes. Having done it, she felt strange and a little guilty, 
like she had done something wrong. But she also felt 
something that might have been joy, in the things she never 
allowed herself to think of. The memories of that time were 
unsafe, there were traps and snares wrought into their very 
substance, but there were precious things among them. 

“Sorry,” she said. “Il can’t remember more.” 

“No, that’s really impressive. | can’t believe you 
remember that far back at all,” he said. “I didn’t mean to 
push you,” he added a little sheepishly, then looked 
thoughtful. “What was the song?” 

“| think it was the same one they dance to at Freddy’s,” 
Charlie said. 

“No, the one your parents sang in the car.” 

“Oh,” she said. “I don’t know if | remember it. It wasn’t 
really a song, you know? It was just a little line.” She closed 
her eyes, picturing the car, trying to envision the backs of 
her parents’ heads as though she were still in the backseat. 
She waited, trusting her mind to give it up, and after a 
moment, it did. She hummed it, just six notes. 

“ ‘We're back in harmony,’ ” she sang. “And they’d, you 
know, harmonize,” she added, embarrassed by her parents 
even now. John’s expression was blank for a moment as the 
words at first seemed meaningless, but then his eyes lit with 
promise. 

“Charlie, there’s a town north of here called New 
Harmony.” 


“Huh,” was all she said for a moment. She listened to the 
words in her head, wanting them to set off an inspiration, 
trip a memory, but they did not. 

“| feel like that should ring a bell, but it doesn’t,” she 
said. “Sorry. | mean, it doesn’t sound wrong, but it doesn’t 
sound right, either.” She was disappointed, but John still had 
that thoughtful look on his face. 

“Come on,” he said, extending his hand. Charlie wiped 
her cheek and took a shaky breath, then looked to him. She 
nodded with an exhausted smile and got to her feet. 


* OK OX 


“Should we wait for everyone to wake up?” John said as they 
emerged into the parking lot after a brisk walk back. 

“No,” Charlie said with unexpected vehemence. “I don’t 
want everyone there for this,” she added in softer tones. 
Just the thought of the whole group going along made her 
anxious. It was too risky, too private; she had no idea what 
they might find or what it might do to her, and she couldn’t 
abide the thought of making those discoveries with an 
audience. 

“Okay,” John said. “Just us, then.” 

“Just us.” 

Charlie went inside and grabbed her car keys, moving 
Slowly so as not to disturb the others. As she was heading 
back to the door, Jason stirred and opened his eyes, looking 
up at her like he wasn’t quite sure who she was. She put a 
finger to her lips. 

He nodded sleepily and closed his eyes again, and she 
hurried out the door. She tossed the keys to John and got in 
on the passenger’s side. 


“There’Ss a map in here,” she said, jostling open the 
glove-box door. The map fell out amid a pile of hand 
warmers and emergency food rations. 

“Your aunt strikes again.” John smiled. 

Charlie held the map just a few inches from her face. 
New Harmony was close, only about half an hour away. 

“Think you can navigate?” he asked. 

“Aye, Cap’n!” Charlie said. “Turn left out of the lot.” 

“Thanks,” he said wryly. 

They drove back through the town and out the other 
side, the houses farther and farther between as they went. 
Each one stood solitary, connected only by sagging power 
lines. Charlie watched the telephone poles and the dipping 
wires repeating hypnotically as if they would go on forever, 
then blinked, breaking the spell. Ahead of them the 
mountains rose up ancient and dark against the clear blue 
sky; they looked more solid than anything else around them, 
more real, and maybe they were. They had been here, 
watching, long before the houses, long before the roads, 
and they would be here long after they were all gone. 

“Nice day,” John said, and she looked at him, tearing her 
gaze from the view. 

“Yeah,” Charlie said. “I kind of forgot how beautiful it is 
out here.” 

“Yeah,” he said. He was quiet for a moment, then looked 
at her sideways, and Charlie couldn’t tell if he was being shy 
or just keeping his eyes on the road. 

“It’s weird,” he said at last. “When | was a kid, the 
mountains kind of scared me, especially when we were 
driving in the dark. They were like some monstrous beasts 
looming over us.” He laughed a little, but Charlie did not. 


“| know what you mean,” she said, then grinned at him. 
“I think they’re pretty much just mountains, though. Hey,” 
She said suddenly, “you never told me what your story was 
about.” 

“My story?” He flicked his eyes at her again, a little 
nervous. 

“Yeah, you said you got a story published. What was it 
about?” 

“I mean, it was just a little magazine, just local,” he said, 
still reluctant. Charlie waited, and finally he continued. “It’s 
called ‘The Little Yellow House.’ It’s about a boy,” he said. 
“He’s ten years old. His parents are fighting all the time, and 
he’s afraid they’re going to get divorced. They fight, and he 
overhears them saying awful things to each other, and he 
hides in his room with the door shut, but he can still hear 
them. 

“So he starts looking out the window, at the house across 
the street. They sort of keep their curtains open just enough 
that he can glimpse inside. He watches them go in and out 
of the house, this family, and he starts making up stories 
about them, imagining who they are and what they do, and 
after a while they start feeling more real to him than his own 
family.” 

He glanced at Charlie again, as if trying to gauge her 
reaction, and Charlie smiled. He went on. 

“So summer comes, and his family goes away for a 
week, and it’s miserable, and when they get back, the 
family in the house across the street has moved away. 
There’s nothing left, just a FOR SALE sign hanging in front.” 

Charlie nodded, waiting for him to continue, but he 
looked at her a little sheepishly. 


“That’s the end,” he said. 

“Oh,” she said. “That’s really sad.” 

He shrugged. “I guess. I’m working on something happy 
now, though.” 

“What's that?” 

He grinned at her. 

“It's a secret.” 

Charlie smiled back. It felt good to be out here, good to 
just be driving out into the horizon. She cranked the window 
down and put her arm out into the air, enjoying the feel of 
the rushing wind. /t’s not wind rushing, it’s us, she thought. 

“What about you?” John said. 

“What about me?” Charlie said, still happily playing 
against the wind. 

“Come on, what’s the life of Charlie like these days?” 

Charlie smiled at him and pulled her arm back into the 
car. “I don’t know,” she said. “Pretty boring.” There was a 
part of her that did not want to tell him for the same reason 
she wanted him with her now: She did not want her new life 
to mix with the old. But John had told her something real, 
something personal, and she felt like she owed him the 
Same in return. 

“It’s all right,” she said at last. “My aunt is cool, even if 
She does sometimes look at me like she’s not quite sure 
where | came from. School’s fine, | have friends and all that, 
but it feels so temporary. | have another year, but | feel like 
I’m already gone.” 

“Gone where?” John asked, and Charlie shrugged. 

“| wish | knew. College, | guess. I’m not sure what comes 
next.” 

“Nobody ever knows what comes next, | guess,” he said. 
“Do you—?” He stopped himself, but she prodded him. 


“Do | what?” she said teasingly. “Do | ever think of you?” 
He flushed, and she instantly regretted the words. 

“Il was going to say, do you ever see your mom,” he said 
quietly. 

“Oh,” she said. “No, | don’t.” It exhausted Charlie to think 
of her mother, and she thought her mother felt the same. 
Too much hung between them—not quite blame, because 
neither of them were to blame for what had happened, but 
something close to it. Their pain, individual, radiated off 
them both like auras, pushing at each other like magnets 
with the poles reversed, forcing them apart. 

“Charlie?” John was saying her name, and she looked 
over at him. 

“Sorry,” she said. “I drifted for a second.” 

“You got any music in this car?” he asked, and she 
nodded eagerly, seizing on the diversion. She bent over, 
picked up cassettes scattered on the floor, and started 
reading labels. He made fun of her tapes, she argued back, 
and after some playful bickering, she shoved a tape into the 
player and settled back again to stare out the window. 

“| think this is where the map’s usefulness ends.” John 
gestured to the road ahead. “The whole area’s pretty much 
blank; | think what we're looking for isn’t going to be on this 
map.” He folded the map and tucked it neatly to the side of 
the seat, craning his neck out the window to see what they 
were passing. 

“Yeah,” she said. It looked like they had returned to 
civilization. Single houses littered the fields, and dirt roads 
branched off in all directions. The landscape was mostly 
bushes and short trees, the whole area nestled between 
rows of low-lying mountains. 


John looked at Charlie, hoping she would notice 
something that would point them in the right direction. 

“Nothing?” he said, though her blank stare had already 
given him the answer. 

“No,” she said plainly. She didn’t want to elaborate. 

The houses became fewer and more scattered, and the 
fields of dry brush seemed to stretch wider, giving the whole 
area a feeling of desertion. John found himself glancing over 
at Charlie at short intervals, waiting for a signal, half 
expecting her to tell him to stop and turn around, but 
Charlie just stared into the distance, her eyes fixed on 
nothing, resting her cheek in her hand. 

“Let’s go back,” she said finally, sounding resigned. 

“We could have missed something,” John said. He slowed 
the car, looking for a spot to make a U-turn. “We missed a 
lot back there; maybe it’s down one of those dirt roads.” 

Charlie laughed. 

“Really? You think we missed a lot?” She grew thoughtful. 
“No, none of this feels right. Nothing rings a bell.” She felt a 
tear spill onto her cheek, and she swiped it away before 
John could notice. 

“Okay, no worries,” Charlie said abruptly, pulling herself 
back from reverie. “Let’s grab a bite, just you and me.” John 
smiled, still checking his mirrors for a place to turn. Charlie 
shivered. Then something caught her eye. She almost 
jumped in her seat, sitting straight up. 

“STOP!” she shouted. John slammed on the brakes and 
the car skidded, dust billowing up all around the car. When 
they stopped, Charlie sat silently as John checked the 
rearview mirror again, his heart racing. 

“Are you Okay?” he said, but Charlie was already out of 
the car. “Hey!” he called after her, scrambling out of his 


seat belt and rushing to lock the car behind him. 

Charlie was running back toward the town, but her eyes 
were on the field beside the road. He caught up quickly, 
trotting along beside her without asking questions. After a 
few minutes, Charlie slowed and began shuffling her feet on 
the ground, peering down as though she had lost something 
Small and valuable in the dirt. 

“Charlie?” John said. Until this moment he had not 
thought about what it was they were doing. It was an 
adventure, a chance to be alone with Charlie, to run off after 
a clue, but now she was starting to worry him. He brushed 
his hair back from his face. “Charlie?” he said again, his 
voice touched with concern, but Charlie did not look at him; 
she was intent on whatever she had found. 

“Right here,” she said. She made a sharp turn toward the 
edge of the road, where something protruded and snaked 
across the ground. John knelt carefully, brushing some of 
the loose dirt with his hand and exposing a flat metal beam. 
He kept going, uncovering a track that stretched across the 
road and went off into the field in both directions. It took 
him a moment to speak; it was as though the earth itself 
had tried to conceal it from them. Be careful, he thought 
with a minor pang of alarm, but he brushed aside the 
feeling. “I think we found your tracks,” he said, looking up at 
Charlie, but she was nowhere in sight. “Charlie?” He took a 
quick look up and down the road, but there were no Cars. 
“Charlie!” he called again, waving the dust away from his 
face and racing to catch up. When he reached her, he hung 
back a little, afraid to disturb her intense focus. 

There was a cluster of trees up ahead, gathered together 
as though around a campfire, tall and short or thick and 


scraggly. Charlie dragged her foot along the track as she 
walked, as if it might vanish if she ceased to touch it. 

“What is that, an old station?” John asked, squinting and 
blocking the sun with his hand. There was a long building 
nestled in the trees, its color blending in with the small 
grove, making it difficult to spot. 

The tracks veered away, heading off toward the 
mountains, and Charlie stopped dragging her foot along 
them, letting them go. John finally caught up, and they 
walked through the dry grass together toward the grove of 
trees, not far away now. 

“There has to be a road.” Charlie strayed almost 
randomly, heading away from the building. John hesitated. 

“But ...” He gestured toward the building, then followed 
her, looking back to make sure he knew the way back to the 
car. Before long, the ground leveled out beneath their feet. 
Old pavement, broken with weeds and mounds of crumbling 
rock, stretched across the field in a narrow, almost hidden 
path, leading once again toward the small building. 

“This is it,” Charlie said softly. John approached her 
carefully, then stood at her side. They walked the road 
together, dodging around the pillars of grass that shot up 
from the breaks and holes. The tree was there, the one with 
reaching arms and ghastly face, but it was no longer 
frightening, no longer as Charlie remembered. It must have 
already been dead when she was a child, she realized. Its 
limbs had fallen off, leaving jagged holes where they had 
been, and they lay where they fell, rotting into the ground. 
The tree seemed a frail and weak shade of its former self, 
only recognizable by the stumps and bulges on its side that 
had made its face. Now even the face looked tired. 


The building itself was long and dilapidated. It was a 
single story, with a dark roof and weather-beaten walls. The 
place had once been painted red, but time and sun and rain 
had won out over the paint; it was peeled and curling, whole 
long strips of it gone and the wood beneath showing, dark 
with what might be rot. Its foundation was overgrown with 
tall grass, and Charlie thought it looked as if it were sinking, 
as though the whole structure was slowly being swallowed 
by the earth. Charlie grabbed John’s arm as they neared it, 
then let it go and straightened her back. She felt as though 
she were preparing for a fight, as if the building itself might 
attack if it sensed weakness. 

Charlie went warily up the few steps to the door, sticking 
to the edges and testing the wood before she let down her 
full weight. The stairs held, but there were soft, splintered 
patches in the middle she didn’t want to try. John didn’t 
follow her right away, sidetracked by something nearly 
hidden in the grass. 

“Charlie.” He held it up: a battered metal sign with the 
painted words FREDBEAR’S FAMILY DINER in red script. 

Charlie gave a gentle smile. Of course this is it. I’m 
home. 

John came up the stairs behind her and set the sign down 
carefully by the door, and they went inside. The door swung 
open easily. Light streamed in through the windows on all 
sides, revealing emptiness and decay. Unlike Freddy’s, this 
place had been cleaned out. The wooden floors seemed 
intact, but they were warped from weather. Sunlight was 
streaming in, unobstructed, and went where it wanted 
without furniture or people to block its path. Charlie looked 


up at the ceiling fan; it was still there, but one of its blades 
was missing. 

There were double doors to their right with circular 
windows. Unlike the dining area, which was breached with 
sunlight and the sounds of the outside, the room behind the 
double doors was still pitch black. John was more interested 
in this than Charlie, and he carefully peered into one of the 
windows, obviously tempted to nudge it open and see what 
was inside. Charlie left him to his curiosity and walked 
farther into the dining room, which she only knew as the 
dining room through memory. Now it was a vacant and 
lonely room, stretching long and narrow, at least fifty feet, 
growing darker as it went. There was a slightly elevated 
stage at the end of the room, and Charlie realized as she 
looked around that the place had probably once been a 
dance hall, and the long desk by the entrance that her 
parents had used for a cash register had probably been a 
bar. She went over to it and saw that she was right: There 
were even grooves and scratches in the wood floor where 
barstools had once dug their feet. She tried to picture it, a 
dark bar with a country-western band playing on the stage, 
but she could not. 

When Charlie looked at the stage, she could still see two 
animatronic animals in shadow, moving in unnatural twists 
and turns. She could hear echoes of carnival music and 
distant laughter. She could still smell the cigarette smoke in 
the air. She hesitated before going farther, as though the 
ghosts she remembered might linger on the stage. She tried 
to catch a glimpse of where John was. He finally had the 
door to the kitchen half-open and was sticking his head 
inside. Charlie turned her attention back to the stage and 
walked toward it across the creaking floor. Even the smallest 


sound was deafening, accompanied by faint whistles as the 
wind slipped through cracks in the windows and walls. Strips 
of wallpaper had peeled down and hung flat against the 
wall, inert until a breeze lifted them up, and they wagged 
like thin fingers pointing at Charlie as she walked. 

Charlie stood at the base of the stage, studying the floor 
carefully for traces of what might have stood there before. 
All that remained were holes where bolts had once been. 
The corners looked blackened, with the shapes of coils and 
wires etched into dirt and wood. 

Everything is gone. 

Her head jerked toward the corner to her right; there was 
another door. Of course there is another door. This is why 
you are here. She stood still, looking at the door, but not 
ready to touch it. She was grasped with a strange and 
illogical fear, as though spiders and boogeymen might come 
rushing out. 

The door was ajar. Charlie looked back toward John again, 
hesitant to go on without him. As though he heard her 
calling to him, he leaned out of the kitchen door with a 
wide-eyed expression. “This is really creepy.” He was 
obviously enjoying himself, like a kid in a haunted house. 

“Can you come with me?” Charlie’s plea came as a 
Surprise to John, who seemed pleased but irritated at the 
same time, having been enjoying his own adventure on the 
other side of the building. “Two seconds,” he promised, then 
disappeared again. 

She rolled her eyes, disappointed but not surprised that 
his childish curiosity would take priority. She rested the back 
of her hand against the aged wooden door and gently 
guided it open, bracing herself against whatever might be 
inside. 


Whatever she had been expecting, this wasn’t it. It was a 
closet, the inside extending off to her left about eight or 
nine feet into darkness. There were horizontal poles 
mounted along the walls where hangers had once been. 
Square shapes imprinted in the dust filled her mind with 
images of boxes, maybe speakers. 

As she stepped inside, she pushed the door open all the 
way, trying to let in as much light as possible. As she walked 
farther in, she let her hand drag along the wall. Although 
nothing was there now, she could feel heavy cloth, coats, 
and sweaters hanging. 

No. These were costumes. 

Costumes had hung here in the dark, hiding their colors 
but allowing themselves to be felt by every cheek and small 
hand that passed through. Rubber-padded palms and 
fingers swayed this way and that. Reflections on false eyes 
passed overhead. 

Charlie reached the end and turned to look back. She 
crouched down, looking up at the empty space. It didn’t feel 
empty. She could still feel the costumes; they were hanging 
all around her. There was someone else in the closet with 
her, kneeling down at her own height. It was her friend, the 
little boy. 

My little brother. 

They were both playing and hiding together as they 
always did. This time was different. The little boy looked up 
toward the door suddenly as though they had been caught 
doing something they shouldn’t have been doing. Charlie 
looked up as well. There was a figure in the door. It looked 
like one of the costumes was standing on its own, but it was 
motionless, so still that Charlie wasn’t sure what she was 
seeing. 


It was the rabbit, the yellowish-brown rabbit they loved, 
but it did not dance or sing, just stood there and stared at 
them, unblinking. They began to squirm under its gaze, and 
the little boy screwed up his face to wail. Charlie pinched his 
arm, seized with an instinctual sense that they must not cry. 
The rabbit looked back and forth from one to the other with 
those all-too-human eyes, ponderous, as though weighing 
and measuring them in some way that Charlie could not 
understand, like it was making a momentous decision. 
Charlie could see its eyes, its human eyes, and she was cold 
with terror. She felt the fear in her brother as well, felt it 
echoing between them, reverberating and growing because 
it was shared. They could not move, they could not scream, 
and finally the creature inside that patchwork, ragged 
yellow rabbit suit reached forward for the boy. There was a 
moment, one single moment, when the children still clung 
together, gripping hands, but the rabbit snatched the boy to 
his breast, yanking them apart, and fled. 

From that moment the entire memory shattered with 
piercing and unrelenting screams, not her brother’s, but her 
own. People rushed to help, her father picked her up and 
held her, but nothing could console her; she screamed and 
screamed, louder and louder. Charlie snapped back from her 
dream, the sound still high and painful in her ears. She was 
crouched down in silence. John stood at the door, not daring 
to interrupt. 

She did not remember much of what had happened next; 
everything was dark. It was all a blur of images and facts 
she had pieced together later, things she might remember 
and others she might have imagined. She was never in the 
restaurant again. She knew her parents shuttered the doors 
immediately. 


Then they moved to the new house, and Charlie’s mother 
left a little while after that. Charlie did not remember her 
saying good-bye, although she knew her mother must have. 
Her mother would not have left without a good-bye, but it 
was just lost in the mist of time and grief like so much else. 
She remembered the first time she stood in the doorway of 
her father’s workshop, the first day they were alone in 
everything. It was the day he began to build her a 
mechanical toy, a little dog who tilted its head from side to 
side. She smiled when she saw it finished, and her father 
looked at her the way he would look at her for the rest of his 
life, as though he loved her more than life itself and as 
though his love made him unbearably sad. She knew even 
then that something vital inside him had broken, something 
that could never be repaired. Sometimes he seemed to look 
right through her, as if he couldn’t see her even when she 
was Standing right in front of him. 

Her father never again spoke her brother’s name, and so 
Charlie learned not to speak it, either, as though to speak it 
would send them back to that time and unravel them both. 
She woke in the mornings and looked for the little boy, 
having forgotten in her dreams that he was gone. When she 
turned to where he would be and saw only her stuffed toys 
She would cry, but she would not say his name. She was 
afraid to even think it, and she trained her mind to shrink 
from it until she truly forgot, but deep inside she knew it: 
Sammy. 

A rumbling sound rose, loud and low like a train passing, 
and Charlie startled. 

“A train?” She looked around her, eyes wide; she was 
disoriented, not sure if she was in the past or present. 


“It’s okay. | don’t think it’s anywhere near here. Might 
just be a big truck.” John took Charlie’s arm and pulled her 
to her feet. “Did you remember something?” he whispered. 
He was trying to catch her gaze, but she was focused 
elsewhere. 

“A lot.” Charlie put her hand to her mouth, still staring 
into the darkness as if she could see the scene. John’s hand 
on her arm was an anchor, and she clung fast to it. This is 
real. This is now, she thought, and she turned to him, seized 
by a fierce gratitude that he was there with her. She buried 
her face in his chest as if his body could shield her from 
what she had seen, and she let herself cry. John hugged her 
tight, one hand on her head, cautiously stroking her hair. 
They stayed that way for long moments, and at last she 
calmed, her breathing deep and even again. John loosened 
his grip on her, and as soon as he did, Charlie stepped back, 
suddenly aware of how close they had been. 

John’s hands were still suspended in midair from where 
Charlie had been. After a moment of shock, he lowered one 
and used the other to scratch his head. 

“So ...” He hoped for an answer to fill the silence. 

“A rabbit,” Charlie said calmly, looking toward the 
doorway. “A yellow rabbit.” Her voice became graver as the 
image was still fresh in her mind. 

“The one | saw the night Michael disappeared, the bear, 
I’m pretty sure he was yellow, too.” 

“| thought you said it was like the others,” Charlie said. 

“1 thought it was. When everybody said Freddy was 
brown, that night we first met up, | just thought | was 
remembering it wrong. | mean, | really don’t have a great 
memory for back then, you know? | didn’t even remember 


what color my old house was. But then you said he was 
yellow, too.” 

“Yeah, they were yellow.” She nodded; it was the answer 
he was expecting. 

“Il think it’s connected—the animals from here, and the 
one | saw at Freddy’s.” 

And the one that took my brother, Charlie thought. She 
took a final look around the place. 

“Let’s go back,” she said. “I want to get out of here.” 

“Okay,” John said. 

As they headed to the door, a small object caught 
Charlie’s eye, and she snatched it up. It was a twisted piece 
of metal, and as John watched, close by, she stretched it 
out, then let it snap back together with a loud crack, like a 
whip. John jumped. 

“What is that?” he said, composing himself. 

“I’m not sure,” she said, but she slipped it into her 
pocket. John was watching her like there was something he 
wanted to say. “Let’s go,” Charlie said. 

They began the trek back to the car. Sammy, then years 
later Michael and the other kids—of course it’s connected, 
Charlie thought. Lightning might strike twice, but not 
murder. 

“Can you drive again?” she asked after a long period of 
silence. The only sounds so far had been their shoes 
crunching through the dry grass. 

“Yeah, of course,” he said. 

John managed to get the car turned around in the 
constricted space, and Charlie settled against the window, 
her eyes half-closed already. She watched the trees fly by 
outside her window and felt herself beginning to doze. The 
metal object in her pocket was digging into her leg, keeping 


her awake, and she repositioned it, thinking dreamily of the 
first time she saw one of the things. 

She was sitting with Sammy in the restaurant, before it 
opened for the day; they were under a window, in a dusty 
beam of light, playing some invented game she could no 
longer remember, and their father came over, grinning. He 
had something to show them. 

He held up the piece of twisted metal and showed them 
how it opened, then let it snap back in his hand. They both 
cried out in surprise, then started giggling and clapping 
their hands. 

Their father did it again. “I could snap off your nose!” he 
said, and again they laughed, but quickly his face turned 
serious. “| mean it,” he said. “This is a spring lock, and | 
want you to know how it works because it’s very dangerous, 
and | don’t ever want you touching these. This is why we 
never put our hands in the animal costumes; it’s very easy 
to trigger these if you don’t know what you’re doing, and 
you could get hurt. It’s like touching the stove—do we ever 
touch the stove?” 

They shook their heads with a solemnity beyond their 
years. 

“Good. Because | want you both to grow up with all your 
noses!” he cried, and he swept them up, one in each arm, 
Swinging them around as they laughed. Suddenly there was 
a loud snap. 

Charlie jolted out of sleep. 

“What was that?” 

“What was what?” John said. The car was off. Charlie 
looked around; they were back at the motel. 

Charlie took a moment to reorient herself, then gave a 
reluctant smile. “Thanks for driving.” 


“What were you dreaming about?” John said. “You looked 
happy.” 

Charlie shook her head. 

“| don’t remember.” 





The other car was gone from the lot, and when they went 
into the room, there was a note on Charlie’s pillow, written 
in Marla’s big, loopy handwriting. 

We’re meeting for dinner at 6:30, and then going to you- 
know-where! she had written. See you two soon—don’t 
forget about the rest of us! XOXO Marla 

She had drawn a smiley face and a heart below her 
name. Charlie smiled to herself, folding the note and 
Slipping it into her pocket without showing it to John. 

“What does it say?” he asked. 

“We have to meet them at the diner in’—she checked 
her watch—“an hour.” John nodded. He was still standing in 
the doorway, waiting for something. “What?” Charlie said. 

“Il need to go change,” he said, gesturing at the rumpled 
clothing he was wearing. “Can | take your car?” He held up 


the keys and jangled them. 

“Oh, yeah, of course. Just come back for me,” Charlie 
said with a grin. 

He smiled. “Of course,” he added with a wink. 

When the door closed behind him, Charlie let out a sigh. 
Alone at last. She was unaccustomed to so much company; 
She and Aunt Jen moved in their own orbits, meeting gladly 
from time to time throughout the day, but with the 
assumption that Charlie could take care of her own needs or 
would speak up if she could not. Charlie never spoke up. 
She could feed herself, get to school and back, and maintain 
her high grades and casual friendships. What could Aunt Jen 
do about nightmares? About questions she did not really 
want the answers to? What could Aunt Jen tell her that was 
not even more horrific than what she already knew? So she 
was not used to the sustained presence of other people, and 
it was a little tiring. 

She showered quickly and pulled on new clothes, jeans 
and a black T-shirt, then lay back on the bed, staring up at 
the ceiling. She had a vague sense that her mind should be 
racing with excitement or horror at their discoveries, going 
over and over the memories she had awakened, searching 
for something new. Instead, she just felt blank. She wanted 
to be alone, to push the memories to the back of her mind 
where they belonged. 

After what seemed like only a few short minutes, there 
was a knock on the door, and Charlie sat up, checking her 
watch. More time had passed than she realized; it was time 
to leave. She let John in. 

“| have to put on my shoes,” she said. She looked up at 
him as she knotted the laces. He had changed, this time 
into jeans and a T-shirt, a contrast with the formal clothes 


she had gotten used to. His hair was still wet, and there was 
something fresh and bright about him. She smiled a little. 

“What?” he said when he noticed. 

“Nothing,” she said. “You still look dirty,” she joked as 
She pushed past him. They got in the car. This time she 
drove, and when they reached the diner, Charlie turned off 
the engine and hesitated, not moving to leave the car. 

“John,” she said. “I don’t want to tell anyone about 
Fredbear’s.” 

“But—” He stopped himself. “Yeah,” he said. “I think we 
forget this is your life and not just some adventure. It’s fine; 
| can keep a secret.” 

“It’s all our lives,” she said. “We were all there. We can 
tell them later; | just want to sort some of it out for myself 
right now.” 

“You got it,” he said, and he looked a little pleased. 
Charlie knew why—it was a secret between them, 
something she entrusted only to him. 

When they went inside, everyone was already halfway 
through dinner. Charlie realized with a sharp pang that she 
had not eaten all day, and she found herself suddenly 
starving. The waitress spotted them as they sat down and 
came over immediately. They talked intermittently: Lamar, 
Jason, and Marla had gone to a movie, and Carlton and 
Jessica had played video games at his house. But their 
conversation was cursory, just filling the time as they ate. 
Charlie barely listened, and she had the feeling that even 
those who were talking were paying little attention to their 
own words. There was an agitated energy among the group; 
they were all just waiting, their minds already focused on 
Freddy’s. 


“What about you two?” Jessica asked, looking at Charlie 
and John. 

“Yeah, what about you two?” Marla echoed with a twinkle 
in her eye. 

“We just went for a drive,” John said quickly. “Got lost for 
a while.” 

“| bet you did,” Carlton muttered into his burger, grinning 
Slyly even though his mouth was full. 

After dinner, the group hurried through the mall and 
toward the restaurant, hushed and cautious. As they passed 
through the atrium, their shoes made only soft sounds on 
the tiled floor, and no one spoke. Charlie had left the big 
flashlight in the car. They knew their way well enough by 
now, and the guard had almost seen them the night before; 
there was no reason to risk drawing extra attention. They 
came to the end of the hall, and Lamar, at the front of the 
group, stopped short. Charlie bumped into Marla before she 
realized what was happening, and she murmured an 
apology, then froze. 

The night guard was blocking the alley behind Freddy’s, 
his arms folded across his chest. He had no flashlight, and 
so he had been invisible, hidden in the darkness until they 
were almost upon him. 

“| had a feeling you wouldn’t leave it alone,” he said with 
an odd, uneven smile. 

Marla whispered something unpleasant under her breath. 

“1 could have you arrested for trespassing,” he said. “Saw 
you here last night, but | couldn’t see where you got to. | 
guess now | know,” he added with a smirk. 

There was something almost immediately off-putting 
about the man. He was tall and slightly too thin for his 
uniform, which bagged at the shoulders and waist, as if he 


had once been a more robust man but had lost his form 
somehow to illness or tragedy; his name tag, reading DAVE, 
hung askew on his chest. His skin was sallow, and his eyes 
were undercut by heavy lines, adding to the impression of 
longstanding ill health. 

“What were you all doing back here anyway?” he 
demanded. “You kids partying? Drugs? | could have you 
arrested right now, you know.” Charlie and John glanced at 
each other. 

“We're sorry,” Lamar said quickly. “We'll go. We don’t 
have any drugs.” 

“Says who? Says you?” The guard wore an odd 
expression, and his words were harsh and fast; he seemed 
not to be responding to what they were saying. He looked 
angry, but his mouth kept quirking up at the corners, like he 
was trying not to smile. 

“What do we do?” Jessica whispered. 

“Probably the most action he’s ever had out here,” 
Carlton said with a hint of disdain, and Charlie remembered 
suddenly that Carlton’s father was a cop. She remembered 
him in his uniform, tilting down his dark sunglasses at them 
with a mock-glare, then smiling, revealing the joke. The 
guard, however, looked like he meant it. 

“We'll go,” Lamar said again. “Sorry.” 

Charlie looked at the man, considering him: the ill-fitting 
uniform, his peaky, almost exhausted-looking features. He 
really could kick them off the property or even have them 
arrested for trespassing, but still, she could not really fear 
him. His inadequacy shone through him like a kind of 
negative charisma. He would always be shoved to the back 
of a crowd, always shouted down in an argument, always 


picked last, forgotten, ignored in favor of those who were 
simply more vital, more vigorously attached to life. Charlie 
frowned at herself. It was an unusual train of thought for her 
—she did not usually assume she could read the lives of 
strangers through the lines on their faces. But it gave her an 
idea. 

“Why don’t you come with us?” she said. “We just want 
to explore a little bit more, then we’ll leave. You know your 
way around better than any of us,” she added, hoping that 
some of the flattery would stick. 

“And then we’ll never come back again,” Carlton said. 
The guard did not immediately dismiss the idea, and the 
others quickly chimed in with their own assurances. The 
guard peered at them one by one, fixing his gaze on each in 
turn. When he looked at Charlie, she looked away, not 
wanting to meet his eyes, as if she would be giving 
something away if she let him look too deeply. Once he had 
inspected them to his satisfaction, he nodded. 

“Sure,” he said. “Only because I’ve always wanted to 
take a walk in there myself.” He jerked a thumb behind him, 
and, catching the surprise that must have shown on their 
faces, added, “I’m not an idiot. I’ve been working here for 
years, walked this building inside and out every night. You 
think | don’t Know what’s back there?” Charlie felt herself 
flush; she had somehow assumed their discovery was 
unique. The guard looked down at his name tag suddenly, 
then pointed to it. “Name’s Dave,” he said. 

“I’m Jason,” Jason said, and, a little warily, the others 
recited their own names in turn. They stood there, looking at 
one another awkwardly for a moment, no one wanting to be 
the first to move, then Jessica shrugged. 


“Come on,” she said. She walked quickly to the 
scaffolding that hid the alley to Freddy’s and pulled back the 
plastic, revealing the break in the wall, and they all filed 
through, squeezing past the piled boxes. Dave hung back 
politely, letting them all go first. He motioned to Charlie to 
go ahead. 

| don’t want you behind me, Charlie thought. She looked 
at Jessica, who wasn’t moving, either. 

“Please, go ahead,” Charlie said with an edge in her 
voice, and Dave ducked his head shyly and went. Charlie 
followed him, and Jessica tucked the plastic carefully back 
where it was, concealing their passing even though there 
was no one left to catch them. As they made their way down 
the dank alley, Charlie touched her fingers to the brick wall, 
dragging her hand along it as if to guide her. The flashlights 
seemed a little dimmer now, though she knew it could only 
be her imagination. 

They led the guard to the heavy wooden shelf that hid 
the entrance, and Lamar, John, and Jessica dragged it out of 
the way, revealing the door. Charlie expected their new 
companion to be impressed, but he just nodded, as if he had 
suspected this all along. 

One by one, they entered the hall to the restaurant, and 
again Charlie lagged back from the group. She caught 
Carlton by the arm as he passed her. 

“Carlton,” she whispered. “Have you ever seen this guy?” 

Carlton shook his head. “It’s not that small a town; | don’t 
know everybody.” 

Charlie nodded absently, her eyes still on the newcomer 
as they made their way down the long hallway into Freddy’s 
main dining room. She had invited the guard because it 
seemed like the only way to get back in, but now she was 


beginning to regret it. Letting a stranger into Freddy’s was 
like letting him into her home, like giving something up. 

“What happened to the restaurant?” Lamar said, his tone 
carefully even, forcing a friendliness he could not have felt. 
“Why is it boarded up? And why is the mall abandoned 
anyway?” His voice sounded thin in the narrow hallway, a 
little muted. 

“You don’t know?” Dave said. “This town needs money, 
jobs, revenue, things like that, and one thing we’ve got a lot 
of is space. So they decided to build a big mall, try and 
attract businesses, maybe even tourists. They built up 
around where Freddy Fazbear’s was, but when it came to it, 
no one would lease the restaurant, you know, because of 
what happened. So someone had the bright idea of sealing 
the whole place up, intact; someone who had a sentimental 
attachment to it, perhaps. | don’t think they even tried to 
clear it out. But it wasn’t enough. Something about that 
place spilled over into the rest of the building, maybe right 
down into the soil. No one wanted to bring their business 
here. Sometimes business owners, franchisers from outside 
the town, would come and look at the place, but they never 
signed the papers. Said it just didn’t feel right. | think it’s 
got an aura, a mystical energy, maybe, if you believe in that 
sort of thing.” Dave wiggled his fingers in the air as though 
casting a Spell. 

“| don’t believe in that sort of thing,” Lamar said shortly, 
but the guard did not seem to notice his tone. 

“To each his own,” he said. “All | know is, no one ever 
wanted their stores here, and they abandoned the 
construction before the building was even finished. Now 
nobody comes up here except kids wanting to screw around. 
And me,” he added with what sounded like pride. He must 


have felt possessive, Charlie thought, the only one who ever 
came here for years and years. It must have felt like it 
belonged to him, this strange, half-finished building. To him, 
they must be the invaders. 

They came to the end of the hallway, and the space 
opened up before them. Jessica ran ahead to the control 
room beneath the stage, her flashlight bobbing merrily 
ahead of her. She disappeared for a moment, then hit the 
light switch, and all at once the room was warm and bright. 
Charlie stopped, blinking in the sudden light. Dave brushed 
past her, and as he did something caught her eye: There 
was a scar on his neck, curved and ugly, almost a perfect 
half-moon. The tissue was knotted and white—the cut that 
made it must have been a deep one. Only a few feet away, 
Dave turned in a circle, taking in the restaurant, awed, and 
as he did, Charlie saw that the scar had a twin; the same 
half-moon, in the same place on the other side of his neck. 
She shivered a little. The marks were too clean, too 
perfectly placed; they almost looked deliberate. 

The group fanned out. Carlton, for some reason, headed 
toward the kitchen, and Jason wandered away toward the 
arcade again. 

“Be careful!” Marla called after him, but she was already 
following Lamar to the control room to join Jessica. Charlie 
hung back, and John stayed with her. There was something 
different in the air, Charlie thought. It felt thinner, like she 
had to breathe deeper to get enough oxygen. /t’s just a guy, 
She told herself, but that was the problem. They had 
brought an outsider in with them, and now the restaurant 
felt less secure, no longer hidden away. Freddy’s had been 
breached. Freddy, Bonnie, and Chica had begun to Jerk in 
their stiff, single movements. Charlie looked at Dave, but he 


did not appear surprised. He’s been here before, she 
thought. Then: Of course he’s been here before. The whole 
town used to come here back then. 

John motioned her on, and reluctantly she went with him 
to the control room, Dave tagging along behind them like a 
Stray. 

In the booth, Jessica was hunched over, pressing buttons, 
and Lamar was studying the control board, trying to make 
sense of it. Dave peered intently over their shoulders, 
watching. He was nodding slightly to himself, wrapped up in 
some private calculation, and when Jessica stepped back 
and stretched, he cleared his throat. 

“Um,” he said. “Could | try?” He drew himself up a little, 
extending his arm graciously. 

Jessica and Lamar exchanged glances, then shrugged. 

“Why not?” Jessica said. They shuffled around so that he 
could reach the board, and he stared down at it for a long 
moment without moving, then touched a short series of 
buttons. A hum rose from the speakers, a long, low tone 
that did not waver. 

“Whoa,” Jessica said and pointed to the monitors. Charlie 
Saw movement on the screen and backed out of the control 
room to look for herself. Onstage, the animals were dancing. 
Crudely, awkwardly, without the grace or complexity Charlie 
remembered, but they were moving in sequences, not just 
one motion at a time. 

Charlie went back to the control room but did not go 
beyond the door. 

“How did you do that?” she snapped, not caring if it was 
rude. Dave raised his hands in the air. 

“Beginner’s luck,” he said. “I just pressed some buttons.” 


“Right,” Charlie said. She rubbed her temples. “Can 
someone please turn off the speakers?” 

Lamar darted forward and flipped a switch, and the 
sound died. Despite the silence, Charlie felt as if she could 
still hear it, whining away inside her head. She closed her 
eyes fora moment, and when she opened them, Jessica and 
Lamar had gone back to working the controls, but there was 
a caution to their movements, and they glanced at each 
other every few seconds as if seeking reassurance. Charlie 
looked at John. His arms were folded across his chest, and 
his eyes were trained on the back of Dave’s head. 


* OK OX 


In the arcade, Carlton pressed some random buttons on a 
game console, knowing nothing would happen, then turned 
around, finding himself the subject of an eleven-year-old’s 
resentful stare. 

“What?” he said. 

“I’m not a baby,” Jason said. “You don’t have to watch 
me.” 

“What? Jason, I’m not watching you, I’m just hanging out 
with you. I’m not Marla. Go stick your tongue in an electric 
socket, for all | care.” He waggled his eyebrows comically, 
and Jason laughed. 

“Okay, then, maybe | will,” he said. He scanned the 
baseboards for a socket, briefly considering calling Carlton’s 
bluff, but when he glanced back, Carlton had already 
wandered off. Jason bit his lip and rocked on his heels, 
feeling foolish. After a moment, he went back to the 
drawings on the wall. There were too many drawings to 
peruse each one in turn, but Jason suspected he would not 


need to. As they had the night before, the drawings would 
come to him. They wanted to be found. All Jason had to do 
was look. 

The drawings in the arcade gave up nothing: They were 
just children’s grubby art, faded with age. He went back out 
into the dining room, still hugging the walls and scanning 
them, hunting for something that was more than crayon. 

“What're you up to, Jason?” Lamar was suddenly behind 
him. Jason turned around and studied him for a moment, 
considering. He liked Lamar, even if his friendliness could be 
traced easily to his interest in Marla. Lamar had bent down 
so his head was almost level with Jason’s, and Jason leaned 
toward him and whispered, “The drawings are moving.” 

Lamar drew back, and for a moment a look of real alarm 
crossed his face, but it was fleeting. Jason bit his lip, waiting, 
and Lamar grinned at him, then reached out to pat him on 
the head. 

“Okay, Jason. We'll get you the help you need,” he said 
heartily, and Jason laughed and slapped Lamar’s hand away. 

“Shut up, seriously,” Jason said with a_ hint of 
sheepishness, and Lamar patted his head again and headed 
off. As soon as Lamar was a few feet away, Jason rolled his 
eyes. What do you think | am, your pet? He gave his hair a 
violent tussle as if he could shake loose whatever Lamar 
had done to him, then went back to the wall, concentrating. 

He had made his way all along one wall and was turning 
the corner when it happened: a flicker, just out of the corner 
of his eye, almost a shimmering. He stopped. Which one 
was it? He scanned the drawings again, going up and down 
the wall carefully, around the place he thought he had seen 
movement, but there was nothing. He started over, stopping 
to look at each crayon scribble, and then it happened again. 


He seized on it this time, his eye finding the drawing just as 
the shimmer of movement stopped, and just as he did, he 
Saw another, so brief he would have ignored it, just a trick of 
the light, had he not been watching for it. It was above the 
first and maybe two feet to the left; his eyes darted back 
and forth, trying to see both at once. Suddenly, there was a 
third movement in a drawing between the two, this one 
more noticeable. This time he almost, almost saw the 
drawing shift before it was still again. Sitting back on his 
heels, Jason looked at the three drawings, each in turn. The 
crayon was black, and they all looked like they had been 
drawn by the same kid, all with two figures in the 
foreground: a child and a rabbit. 

Jason glanced around the room. His sister and the others 
still seemed to be engaged by the stage; Lamar had gone 
back to join them. Jason pulled the drawing he had found 
the night before from his pocket. He smoothed it out, 
pressing it to the surface of the floor, then, slowly, he 
peeled its linty tape out flat and stuck the paper to the wall 
just at his eye level. He stared at the wall, waiting. 

Nothing happened. 

Jason frowned. He had been so certain these would tell 
him something, but they were just drawings. The child and 
the bunny stood in the middle of the paper, in one close 
together, in another far apart. But there was nothing there 
that could be called a story. Oh we//. He started to look over 
at the others again—and the highest one began to move. 

This time he saw the shift: The crayon lines twisted and 
slid on the page, moving of their own accord, too fast to 
follow. When the first stopped moving, another started, they 
continued one after the other until the last, the one he had 
just put back, was finished. Jason watched, eyes wide, his 


heart pounding, but by the time he realized what was 
happening, it was over. The figures were fixed in place, and 
now they did tell a story. In the first, a child was sitting 
alone. In the second, Bonnie appeared behind the child. In 
the next, Bonnie had snatched the child, lifting it off the 
ground. 

In the last, the child was screaming. 

His eyes wide and his heart racing, Jason stepped back. 
He was transfixed: His body suddenly felt leaden, too heavy 
to run. A sound arose, like wind rustling the pages on the 
wall, though they hung motionless before him. The sound 
rushed and grew, louder and louder until wind gave way to 
screaming. Jason clapped his hands over his ears as pages 
began to drop from the walls, landing with loud crashes, as 
if they were made of something far heavier than paper. As 
he watched, the fallen pages turned a dark red, soaking 
through with color as they touched the floor. Jason turned to 
run, but his path was blocked as pages tumbled from the 
ceiling in a torrent. One landed on his shoulder, another on 
his back and then another, and they clung to him, wrapping 
around him as if they would suffocate him. Jason felt his legs 
buckle under the weight, dropping at last to one knee. 

As he braced himself under the storm of paper, the room 
began to shake violently. Jason gritted his teeth, trapped— 
and suddenly it was over. The red-soaked papers were gone, 
there was nothing on his back, and Marla had him by the 
Shoulder and was staring at him, wide-eyed. 

“Jason, what on earth is wrong with you?” 

Jason scrambled to his feet, brushing himself off as if he 
were covered with invisible insects. 

“The pictures were falling on me,” he said urgently, still 
panicked, but as he looked back at the wall, he realized that 


the room was silent and still. A single picture had fallen from 
its place. Marla looked down at it, then back to her brother, 
and shook her head. She leaned close and hissed into his 
ear, “You embarrass me.” She let loose her grip after a 
moment, her face almost blank, and walked away. Jason 
stumbled as he got to his feet but followed as quickly as he 
could, keeping his eyes trained on the walls as they went. 

In the control room, Dave had his hands on the buttons, 
his fingers wandering lightly over them without pressing 
anything. The movement looked careless, instinctual, like a 
habit. Charlie leaned close to John. 

“He’s been here before,” she whispered. “Look at the 
way he touches the controls.” 

“Maybe he’s just good with computers,” John offered, not 
sounding convinced. 

“Can you make them dance again?” Jessica asked. Dave 
barely seemed to acknowledge the question. His mouth 
hung slightly open, and he seemed to be staring at 
something none of them could see. In the bright lights, they 
could all see that his uniform was grubby and torn in places, 
his face poorly shaven and his eyes a little unfocused. He 
looked less like a guard than a vagrant, and he looked at 
them all as if he had wandered in ages ago and they were 
the newcomers. It took him a moment to register the 
question. 

“Sure, let’s see what we can do,” he said. He smiled at 
her, his mouth askew. His eyes were a little too intent on her 
face, holding her gaze just a little too long. Jessica 
swallowed, seized with an instinctive revulsion, but she 
smiled back politely. 

“All right,” Dave said. “I’ve been here a few times before; 
| think | can work some magic.” 


Charlie and John exchanged glances. 

“You've been here before?” John said in a careful, even 
tone, but Dave ignored him, or did not hear. 

There was a keypad to the far left of the control board 
that no one had touched yet, as it did not appear to be 
connected to anything. Now Dave reached for it and began 
to press the buttons quickly, as if he had done it a hundred 
times before. He gave Jessica a conspiratorial glance. “For 
special occasions, you can request a dance.” He smiled at 
her again with that crooked intensity. 

“Great,” Jessica said, breathing a sigh of relief. Anything 
to get out of such forced proximity to this man. She looked 
at Lamar. “I’m going to go look. Will you take over?” 

“Yeah, sure,” he said, scooting forward to fill the vacancy 
as Jessica and Dave made their way out to the show area. 

Onstage, the lights were flashing in patterns, 
accompanying music that no longer played, and Bonnie’s 
mouth was moving as though in song. His eyelids closed for 
long blinks, then opened again with loud clicks, his glass 
eyes moving from side to side. One large blue hand rose 
and fell, strumming exaggeratedly on the red guitar whose 
strings had long since gone missing. 

“Lamar, how much of this are you doing?” Carlton said, 
Suitably impressed. 

“Not much!” Lamar called back. “Most of it seems 
preprogrammed.” 

Bonnie turned to them, and Jessica startled as he 
seemed to look right at her. But he turned away just as 
quickly to face the rows of empty seats, lifting his head to 
sing. 

“It’s strange seeing them like this,” Jessica said, taking a 
step back to get a better view. Bonnie’s foot tapped along in 


rhythm, and his mouth opened and closed with song. There 
was no voice; there was no music. There was only a strange 
humming coming from the speakers and an orchestra of 
mechanical snaps and squeaks. Bonnie sped up, strumming 
and tapping faster. His eyes suddenly seemed out of sync, 
looking left while the head went right, then rolling back into 
his head. 

Dave approached the stage with deliberate steps. 
“Nervous little fella, aren’t you?” He smiled, seemingly 
unbothered as the rabbit moved faster and faster. 

“Hey, Lamar, can you take it down a notch?” Jessica 
called. 

Bonnie’s arms began convulsing violently, his mouth 
open but stuttering, his eyes throwing their gaze in 
seemingly random directions. 

“Lamar! Something’s wrong!” Jessica cried. 

Bonnie’s foot jerked upward with a sound like a gunshot, 
yanking free the bolt that anchored him to the stage. 

“Lamar!” Carlton climbed onto the stage and hurried to 
Bonnie, trying to search the rabbit for an off button as he 
ducked its erratic swings. 

“Carlton, get down, you idiot!” Jessica ran to the stage. 

Bonnie was moving too fast, out of control as if his 
program had hit a glitch. He was no longer following the 
dance sequence they all remembered so well. He began to 
convulse and thrash. Carlton scrambled back, trying to get 
away, but Bonnie’s arm broke away from the guitar, 
swinging out and hitting Carlton across the chest, knocking 
him off the stage. He landed on his back and stayed down, 
gasping for breath. 

“Lamar!” Jessica shouted. “Lamar, turn it off!” 

“| don’t know how!” he yelled back. 


Jessica knelt down beside Carlton, looking helplessly at 
him. She tapped his shoulder insistently. 

“Carlton, are you okay? Carlton? Look at me!” 

Carlton gave a small laugh that sounded more like a 
cough, then grabbed her hand and pulled himself up to sit. 

“It’s okay,” he said. “Just got the wind knocked out of 
me.” Jessica still looked worried. “I just need a minute,” he 
assured her, the words still coming in little wheezes. 

In the control room, Lamar pressed button after button 
frantically, but on the screens he could still see Bonnie 
moving wildly and at random, not responding to anything he 
did. Charlie rushed in, pushing him out of the way, but it 
took her only seconds to see that the buttons were 
powerless. She locked eyes with Lamar for a moment. We 
aren't in control, she thought. As one, they rushed from the 
control room to help the others. 

Jessica screamed, a short, high-pitched sound, and Marla 
and John ran to her, Charlie and Lamar arriving seconds 
later. All the animals were moving now in that same fitful 
way, cycling through their programmed movements at 
random with a desperate, panicked air. The lights began to 
pulse, flickering rapidly on and off. The stage lights did the 
same, the colors appearing and disappearing so that the 
whole space was washed first in bright gold, then a sickly 
green, then a bruised and vicious purple. They blinked like 
strobes, and the effect was nauseating. The speakers blared 
brief bursts of static, cutting in and out like the lights, and 
beneath the static was the same sound they had heard the 
night before, the growling of a voice too low to be human, 
too indistinct to be speaking words. 

The group came together cautiously, not quite trusting 
their own senses. The lights throbbed savagely, and as 


Charlie walked toward her friends, she could not be sure 
how far away they were or what was right in front of her. 
They huddled in the middle of the floor, staring at the 
animals as they rattled and rocked as if with their own 
agenda. Carlton got to his feet; Jessica watched him with 
concern, but he waved her off. 

“Il told you, I’m fine,” he said, shouting to be heard over 
the intermittent noise. 

Charlie stood fixed in place, unable to take her eyes off 
the animals. They’re trying to get away, she thought. It was 
a child’s thought, and she tried to dismiss it, but it clung as 
she watched them, scarcely noticing the fitful flickering of 
the lights and sound. The animatronic creatures didn’t look 
like they were glitching; their movement seemed not 
mechanical but hysterical, like there was something they 
needed desperately to do but, horribly, could not. 

“Where’s Dave?” John said suddenly. Charlie met his eyes 
with a rising dread. Oh no. They all looked around, but the 
guard was nowhere in sight. 

“We have to find him,” Charlie said. 

“He probably left already; who cares?” Marla said, her 
voice high and frightened. 

“I’m not worried about him,” she said grimly. She turned 
to John. “Come on,” she said, setting off toward the hallway 
to the right of the stage. He glanced at the rest of the group 
over his shoulder, then followed Charlie at a brisk pace. 

“We should find the other control room and see if we can 
stop all this from there,” Jessica said crisply, taking charge. 
“You and Jason go look for Dave,” she told Marla. 

“I'll go with them,” Lamar said quickly. 

“Control room?” Carlton said, looking at Jessica. 


“Control room,” she confirmed. They all set off, moving 
Slowly. The strobing lights distorted the space in front of 
them, seeming to throw up obstacles that were not there, 
obscuring the ones that were. The effect was disorienting, a 
constantly shifting maze of light and noise. 

“Ow!” Marla shouted, and everyone stopped short. 

“Are you Okay?” Carlton yelled. 

“Yeah, | just bumped into this stupid merry-go-round,” 
she called back. The speakers were momentarily noiseless, 
but they shouted across the small distance as if there were 
a canyon between them. 


In another hallway, Dave was moving toward a goal. 
Without the others there to watch, he moved fast, scuttling 
almost sideways and darting his eyes back over his hunched 
shoulders from time to time to see he was not followed. 
There was a large key ring at the belt of his uniform, but 
only a few keys hung from it. He selected one, opened a 
door, and let himself into the restaurant’s office. He closed 
the door quickly behind him, cushioning it against noise 
even though the group would never hear it this far away or 
note it between their own shouts and the blaring of the 
speakers. He turned on the overhead light; it was steady, 
illuminating the room without a flicker. On the far wall, there 
was a tall closet flat against the wall, and he used another 
key on his ring to open it. Dave stood still in the open door 
for a long moment, breathing deeply. As he did, his back 
straightened and his hollow chest seemed to expand, 
drawing an uncharacteristic confidence from what he saw. 


An odd, thin smile on his lips, Dave reached out with his 
fingertips, savoring the moment, and brushed yellow fur. 


* OK OX 


Jessica and Carlton hurried away down the hall toward the 
second control room, but Marla and the two boys moved 
more slowly, sticking their heads into the party rooms, then 
the arcade. The rooms appeared empty, but in the 
constantly changing light, Jason thought as they moved on, 
it would be easy to miss just about anything. Having 
checked the area, Marla and Lamar headed back into the 
main room. 

“Where are Jessica and Carlton?” Lamar shouted over 
another burst of garbled sound. Jason stopped and looked 
back, and in a fleeting instant he saw it: a rabbit, outlined in 
the hall for a split second as the lights flashed on him, then 
vanishing and appearing again in his place in the party room 
they had just left. 

“Marla!” Jason shouted. “MARLA!” His voice was shrill, 
agitated. 

She whirled around. “What? Are you okay?” 

“| saw Bonnie! He was there!” 

“What?” Marla’s eyes went automatically to the stage. 
Bonnie was still there, moving back and forth in the same 
odd, spastic movements. “Jason, look, he’s there. He can’t 
move off the stage.” 

Jason looked. Bonnie was there. / saw him, he thought, 
looking back down the hallway, but it was empty. 

Jessica came running up, out of breath. 

“Is everyone okay? | heard screaming.” 


“We're fine,” Lamar said. “Jason thought he saw 
something.” 

“Where’s Carlton?” Marla said. She rubbed her temples. 
“Ugh, this light is giving me such a headache.” 

“He’s still fighting with the controls,” Jessica said. “We 
Should find Charlie and John; | think we need to get out of 
here.” 

“| think they went that way,” Lamar said, pointing to the 
hall at the far end of the room, just past the stage. 

“Come on,” Jessica said. Jason followed as the group 
crossed the main dining room again, maneuvering 
cautiously around tables and chairs. He looked back as they 
reached the hall. Suddenly, Bonnie appeared again, darting 
out from the arcade and ducking into the hall that led to 
Pirate’s Cove. Jason watched his sister and the others file 
through the doorway, then slipped away before they could 
see him go. He ran across the room, intent on following the 
rabbit, then slowed his pace when he reached the dark 
hallway. 

The lights in the little hall were completely out, and 
though he could see nothing, it was a minor relief from the 
pulsing strobes. Jason hugged the wall as he moved, trying 
to scan ahead of him for signs of movement, but it was too 
dark; his eyes had not adjusted. After what seemed like 
ages, he came out of the hall and into Pirate’s Cove. From a 
distance, he could hear his sister’s voice, calling his name. 
Guess they noticed I’m gone, he thought wryly. He ignored 
it. Crossing the room, he peered down the other hallway— 
the one that led to more party rooms—but it was so dark 
that he could scarcely see more than a few feet ahead. 


Turning back, he approached the little stage, the ouT oF 
ORDER Sign still strung across it. As if anything in this place is 
in order. Suddenly, the curtain moved, and Jason froze. The 
curtain began pulling back. Jason couldn’t bring himself to 
run. All went dark, then the lights came on suddenly to 
reveal Carlton standing in front of him, having emerged 
from behind the curtain. 

“What are you doing back here by yourself? Come on, 
let’s go,” Carlton greeted him with a warm smile. 

Awash with relief, Jason took a step forward, opening his 
mouth to speak—and stiffened, struck still with fear. 

Bonnie suddenly broke through the darkness, appearing 
beneath the stage lights before them. But it was not Bonnie; 
this rabbit’s yellow fur was almost blinding in the light. He 
rushed at them, and before Jason could cry out, the giant 
rabbit had a hold of Carlton from behind, smothering his 
face with a giant, matted paw and wrapping his other great 
arm around Carlton’s chest, gripping tightly. Carlton 
struggled silently, hitting and kicking, but the creature 
barely seemed to notice. He screamed into the rabbit’s paw, 
but the sound was swallowed whole. As he fought, the 
rabbit slunk back the way he came, dragging Carlton with 
him like a prize from the hunt. 

Jason watched them go, agape. His heart raced, and his 
breath was shallow; the stifling air around him made him 
light-headed. A noise came from behind him, the grinding 
screech of rusted metal beginning to move, and he leaped 
forward and turned, moving just in time to avoid a hook as it 
plunged swiftly downward. Foxy’s eyes flashed in synchrony 
with the lights above, and for a dizzy moment it seemed to 
Jason that those eyes were the controlling force behind it all, 


that if Foxy closed his eyes, every light might go out. The 
animal did not move like the others. It slowly, purposefully, 
rose between the gap in the curtains, its gleaming eyes 
reaching a staggering height. 

“Jason!” It was Charlie’s voice, he knew, but he kept 
staring back and forth, first at Foxy, then at the place where 
Carlton had been stolen away. “Jason!” she called again, and 
then she and John were beside him, touching him, shaking 
him out of his ghastly reverie. John grabbed his hand and 
pulled him into a run. In the main room, the others were 
already halfway down the hallway to the outside door, all 
but Marla, who was waiting anxiously at the entrance, her 
face flooding with relief when she saw Jason. 

“Marla, Bonnie, he took Carlton!” Jason yelled, but she 
just put a hand on his back and pushed him through the 
door and into the hall. 

“Go, Jason!” 

“But | saw Bonnie take Carlton!” he cried, but he ran, 
afraid to stop. 

They ran down the hall to the outside door, all bouncing 
with a frightened impatience as they filed through to the 
alley one by one; there was no way to go faster. When they 
were all through, Charlie looked down the hallway for a long 
moment, but there was no one coming. She shoved the door 
closed and stepped out of the way as Lamar and John 
wrestled the shelf back into place, blocking it off. 

“No one saw Dave,” Charlie said. It was not a question. 
They all shook their heads. “He must have taken off when 
the lights started going haywire,” Lamar offered, but he did 
not sound convinced. 

“Carlton!” Jason cried out again. “Carlton is still in there! 
Bonnie took him!” 


They all glanced around. Carlton was not with them. 

“Oh no,” Jessica said. “He’s still inside.” 

“Bonnie took him!” Jason said, choking out the words one 
by one, his voice shaking. “I saw it. Bonnie was there, he 
was in Pirate’s Cove, and he grabbed Carlton and carried 
him away. | couldn’t stop him.” He scrubbed a sleeve across 
his eyes, wiping tears. 

“Oh, sweetheart ...” Marla hugged him, and he clung to 
her, hiding his face in her shirt. “No, it was a trick of the 
light. Bonnie couldn’t do that; he’s just a robot. He was 
onstage when we left.” 

Jason closed his eyes. He had only glanced for a second 
at the main stage as they were leaving, but it was true: 
Bonnie had been there, moving in strange and clumsy twists 
and bends, stuck in place. He pulled away from his sister’s 
arms. 

“| saw it,” he insisted, more weakly. “Bonnie took him.” 

The others exchanged glances above his head. Charlie 
looked at Marla, who shrugged. 

“We have to go back in,” Charlie said. “We have to get 
him.” Jessica was nodding, but John cleared his throat. 

“| think we need help,” he said. “It’s not safe in there.” 

“Let’s get Carlton’s dad,” Marla said. “I’m not taking 
Jason back in there.” 

Charlie wanted to protest, but she bit her tongue. They 
were right; of course they were right. Whatever had just 
happened was beyond them. They needed help. 





They made their way back through the corridors of the 
abandoned mall, not bothering to be cautious with their 
footsteps or the beams of their lights. 

“So much for being sneaky,” Charlie said darkly, but no 
one responded. By silent consensus their pace quickened 
steadily; by the time they reached the parking lot they were 
almost running. Spotting her car as they came out the front 
door, Charlie felt an almost physical relief to see it, like it 
was an old friend. 

“Someone should stay here,” she said, pausing with her 
hand on the door handle. “We can’t leave Carlton.” 

“No,” Marla said firmly. “We’re leaving now.” They looked 
at her in surprise for a moment—suddenly, she was talking 
to them all the way she talked to Jason: Sister knows best. 
Lamar and Jason exchanged glances, but no one said 


anything. “We’re going into town. All of us,” she added, 
giving Charlie a warning look, “and we're finding help.” 
They hurried into their cars. As Charlie took the wheel, 
John got into the passenger seat, and she smiled tightly at 
him. Jessica climbed into the back a moment later, and 
Charlie felt a minor disappointment; she had wanted to talk 
to him alone. We’re running for help, it’s not a date, she 
scolded herself, but that hadn’t really been the point. He felt 
safe, a touchstone amid the strange things that were 
happening all around them. She looked over at him, but he 
was staring out the window. They pulled out of the lot, 
following Marla’s car as she sped into the darkness. 


* OK OX 


When they reached the town, Marla yanked her car to the 
side of the main street and stopped, and Charlie followed 
suit. Before the car had fully come to a halt, Jessica leaped 
out of the backseat and started running. Marla followed a 
step behind. They stopped in front of the movie theater, and 
only then did Charlie see that there was a cop in uniform 
beneath the marquee, leaning back against his black-and- 
white car. His eyes widened at the sight of the young 
women barreling toward him, and he took an involuntary 
step back as Marla started talking without pausing for 
breath. 

“... Please, you’ve got to come,” Marla was finishing as 
the others caught up. 

The cop looked a little bewildered. He had a shiny pink 
face, and his hair was so short it was entirely covered by his 
hat. He was young, maybe midtwenties, Charlie realized, 
and he was looking at them skeptically. 


“Is this an actual emergency?” he said. “You may not 
realize it, but pranks can get you into real trouble.” 

Jessica rolled her eyes and stepped forward, closing the 
distance between them. 

“We're not playing a prank,” she said crisply, and Charlie 
suddenly remembered how tall she was. “Our friend is 
trapped in that abandoned shopping mall, and it’s your job 
to help us.” 

“The shopping mall?” He seemed confused, then looked 
in the direction they’d come from. “THAT shopping mall?” 
His eyes widened, then he frowned at them reproachfully, 
looking remarkably like a disappointed parent despite his 
youth. “What were you doing up there in the first place?” 

Charlie and Marla exchanged glances, but Jessica didn’t 
blink. 

“Deal with us later. He’s in danger, and you have to help 
us, Officer—” She leaned in and peered at his name tag. 
“Officer Dunn. Do you want me to go to the fire 
department?” 

Despite her fear, Charlie almost laughed. Jessica said it 
as if she were in a store, threatening to take her business 
elsewhere. It was so absurd it should have gotten her no 
more than a puzzled glance, but Dunn reached for his radio 
hastily. 

“No,” he said. “Hang on.” 

He pressed a button, and the radio emitted a short burst 
of static. Charlie felt a brief chill at the sound, and as she 
looked around, she saw John stiffen and Jason take a tiny 
step closer to Marla. Not seeming to notice their reactions, 
Dunn barked incomprehensible sounds into his radio, talking 
in cop code, and Charlie suddenly had a flash of memory, of 
running around the yard, whispering into walkie-talkies with 


Marla. They could never understand each other on the 
cheap toys her father had found in the drugstore bargains 
bin, but they didn’t mind; actual communication was never 
the point. 

“Charlie, come on!” Jessica shouted at her, and Charlie 
came back to herself. Everyone was heading toward the 
cars and piling back in. Marla pulled out in front, and the 
cop followed her, with Charlie bringing up the rear. 

“Why doesn’t he have the siren on?” Jessica said. Her 
voice was thin and brittle, as if her only choices were a 
sharp tongue or tears. 

“He doesn’t believe us,” John said softly. 

“He should have the siren on,” Jessica said, and this time 
it was almost a whisper. Charlie’s knuckles were white on 
the steering wheel as she stared straight ahead at the cop’s 
red taillights. 

When they got back to the mall, Jessica dashed ahead, 
forcing the rest of them to run behind her. Charlie didn’t 
mind; it felt good to run, purposeful. Lamar was talking to 
the cop as they ran, shouting over the noise of their 
thudding feet. 

“The restaurant is all boarded up, but there’s a door left 
open,” he said, the words broken by his uneven breathing. 
“Behind the plastic—you move it—dark alley—Carlton smells 
like feet.” Officer Dunn’s step stuttered briefly, but he 
regained his stride. When they reached the alley, they 
slowed their pace, moving more cautiously down the narrow 
hall until they came to the door. 

“Right here,” John said, and Dunn moved forward to help 
with the shelf. They drew it back too fast, the contents 
rattling and wobbling. The shelf pitched backward, and 
tools, cables, and paint cans full of nails crashed to the floor. 


“Ow!” John yelled as a hammer bounced off his foot. 
They all watched as the things scattered, some rolling away 
and vanishing down the dark corridor. 

“What?!” Jason wailed, and they all looked up from the 
spill. He was pointing at the door. 

“What is this?” Marla gasped. The door had chains strung 
across it from top to bottom, three enormous padlocks 
holding them all together. The links were bolted into the 
metal frame of the door, and they were heavy, too heavy to 
cut without special tools. It was all rusty; the whole thing 
looked as though it had been there for years. Charlie walked 
up to the door and touched a chain, as if to be sure it was 
real. 

“This wasn’t here,” she said, the words sounding inane 
even as she spoke. 

“We have to get him out!” Jason cried haltingly, his 
hands covering his eyes. “Bonnie is going to kill him, and it’s 
my fault!” 

“What's he talking about?” the police officer said, looking 
at them with renewed suspicion. “Who is Bonnie, and why is 
she going to hurt your friend?” 

“He’s—it’s a robot,” Charlie said quickly. “The robots from 
Freddy Fazbear’s are still there, and they still work.” 

“Freddy Fazbear’s.” Dunn’s face flushed, and he looked 
at the door again. “I used to go there as a kid,” he said 
softly, his tone caught between nostalgia and fear. He 
caught himself quickly and cleared his throat. 

“He came to life,” Jason insisted, no longer making the 
effort to hide his tears. Dunn bent down to his height, his 
tone softening. 

“What's your name?” he asked. 

“We have to get him out,” Jason repeated. 


“His name is Jason,” Marla said, and Jason glared at her. 

“Jason,” Dunn said. He put a hand on Jason’s shoulder, 
glancing at the others with an obvious suspicion. He thinks 
we made him say that, Charlie realized. Jason wriggled in 
Dunn’s grasp, but the officer did not let him go, looking him 
in the eye to ask the next question: “Jason, did they tell you 
to say this? What’s going on here?” 

Irritated, Jason pulled free and took a large step back. 

“That’s what really happened,” he said firmly. 

Officer Dunn exhaled, a long, slow vent of frustration, 
then got to his feet, shedding his kid-friendly act. “So, the 
robots took your friend,” he said. / know what you’re trying 
to pull, said his tone. 

“We were in there,” Charlie stated flatly, keeping her 
voice level, as if saying it calmly and plainly enough might 
convince him that they were not telling lies. “Our friend 
didn’t make it out.” 

The officer looked again at the chains. 

“Look,” he said, apparently deciding to give them the 
benefit of the doubt. “I don’t know how you got in there in 
the first place, and right now | don’t want to know. But the 
machinery in there is old; it hasn’t been touched in ten 
years. Chances are it’s pretty spooky. Heck, | wouldn’t want 
to go in there. So even though | can’t blame you for being 
freaked out, | can guarantee you those robots in there aren’t 
moving by themselves. That place is dead, and it needs to 
be left alone,” he said with a forced chuckle. Jason set his 
jaw, but he didn’t say anything. “I think you all need to go 
home,” Dunn finished, the statement sounding more like a 
threat than advice. 

They looked at one another. 


After a moment of uncomfortable silence, Jessica looked 
to Charlie. “These chains weren’t here before. Right?” she 
faltered, looking back at her friends for confirmation like she 
was beginning to doubt her own memory. 

“No,” Charlie said instantly. “They weren’t. We aren’t 
leaving, and we need your help.” 

“Fine,” Dunn said shortly. “What’s his name?” He 
produced a notebook seemingly from nowhere. 

“Carlton Burke,” Jessica said. She was about to spell it for 
him, when suddenly Officer Dunn put down his pen and 
closed his eyes, his nostrils flaring. 

He glared at them, no longer looking quite so young. “I’m 
going to give you one more chance. Tell me exactly what 
happened.” He spoke slowly, emphasizing the spaces 
between his words. He was in control again, no longer out of 
his depth, like he suddenly understood everything. 

They tried to explain all at once, talking over one 
another. Jessica’s voice was loudest and calmest, but even 
She could not keep her anxiety from bleeding through. 
Charlie hung back, quiet. 7e// me exactly what happened. 
Where were they supposed to start? With the night? With 
the week? With Michael? With the first time her father 
picked up a circuit board? How was anyone ever to respond 
to something like “tell me what happened”? The cop was 
nodding, and he picked up the radio again, but this time he 
spoke comprehensibly. 

“Norah, call Burke. It’s his kid. I’m up at the old mall 
site.” There was an answering burst of static, and the officer 
turned his attention back to them. “Come on,” he said. 

“Come on where?” John said. 

“Off the property.” 


Marla started to protest, but Dunn interrupted. “I’m 
escorting you off the property,” he said. He pulled the baton 
from his belt and pointed with it. 

“Come on,” Lamar said. Jason was still staring sullenly at 
the ground, and Lamar gave him a gentle nudge on the 
shoulder. “Jason, come on. We have to do what he says now, 
okay?” 

“But Carlton!” Jason said loudly, and Lamar shook his 
head. 

“Il know. It’s okay, we'll find him, but we have to go now.” 
He guided Jason toward the mouth of the alley, and 
everyone followed. The police officer walked behind, 
following Charlie a little too closely. She sped up, but so did 
he, and she resigned herself to being shadowed. 

When they got to the parking lot, he directed them to 
wait by the car and walked off a few paces, speaking into 
the radio again, too far away to hear. 

“What’s going on?” Jason said. He was beginning to 
whine; he heard the tone in his voice and tried to modulate 
it. / am not a little kid, he reminded himself. No one 
answered, but Marla rubbed his back absently, and he did 
not move away. 

Long minutes passed in silence. Jessica sat on the hood 
of the car, facing away from the rest of the group. Charlie 
wanted to go to her, but she did not. In her distress, Jessica 
was closing down, going stiff and cold and snippy, and 
Charlie did not think she had what it took to break through 
that without breaking down herself. 

“Was he talking about Carlton’s dad?” Charlie asked, but 
no one had time to answer. Headlights appeared, and a car 
pulled in beside them. The man who got out was tall and 
thin, and his light hair could have been either blond or gray. 


“Carlton’s dad,” Marla whispered, a late answer to 
Charlie’s question. The man smiled as he approached. 

“Carlton’s dad,” he confirmed. “Though since you're all 
grown up now, you’d better call me Clay.” They all muttered 
it, half in greeting, half just to test it out. Jason covered his 
mouth self-consciously, tonguing the invisible gap in his 
molars. 

“| thought our days of mischief would be behind us, no?” 
Clay said, his expression good-humored. 

Jessica slid off the hood of Charlie’s car, her face drawn. 

“I’m so sorry; he’s missing,” she said tightly. “I don’t 
know what happened; he was right with us!” 

“Bonnie kidnapped him!” Jason burst out. “I saw! The 
rabbit took him!” 

Clay started to smile, then stopped himself when he saw 
their faces. 

“Oh, kids, I’m sorry. You haven’t been around in a while. 
I’m afraid Carlton is playing a joke on you, ALL of you.” 

“What?” Lamar said. 

“Oh, come on. With you guys back in town, he couldn’t 
resist,” Clay said. “Whatever happened, | guarantee he set 
it up. He’ll probably pop out of the bushes any minute now.” 

There was a silence as they all waited against probability. 
Nothing happened. 

“Well,” Clay said at last. “That would have been too 
much to ask! Come on, why don’t you come back to our 
place? I'll make you all some hot chocolate, and when 
Carlton finally shows up, you can tell him he’s grounded!” 

“Okay,” Charlie said, without waiting for the consent of 
the others. She wanted to believe Clay, wanted to believe 
that Carlton was all right and would show up laughing. But, 
almost as badly, she wanted to go somewhere where an 


adult was in charge, someone who would make hot 
chocolate and assure them there was no such thing as 
monsters. Her father had never made that claim. Her father 
could never have told her that lie. 

No one objected, and so they started up their caravan 
again, trailing Clay home. They all settled into their 
accustomed places: Charlie, John, and Jessica in Charlie’s 
car, and Marla, Jason, and Lamar in Marla’s. In the rearview 
mirror, Charlie saw Officer Dunn’s car, still right behind 
them. /s he just going this way, or is he making sure we go 
where we’re told? she wondered, but it didn’t really matter. 
They weren’t planning on flight. 

At Carlton’s house they filed in through the front door. 
Charlie looked back in time to see the police car drive on by. 
He was following us. As they climbed the steps, John leaned 
in to whisper in her ear. 

“| didn’t realize how rich they were when | was a kid!” he 
said, and she stifled a laugh. It was true; the house was 
enormous. It was three stories high, and it sprawled out into 
the woods that surrounded it, so wide that Charlie thought 
there must have been whole rooms where all you could see 
out the window was trees. Clay showed them to the living 
room, which looked well used, the furniture mismatched and 
the rugs, dark and durable, made to take stains. 

“Carlton’s mom—who you can call Betty now—is asleep,” 
Clay said. “The soundproofing is pretty good. Just don’t 
shout or crash around.” 

They chorused promises, and he nodded, satisfied, and 
vanished through a doorway. They dispersed themselves 
over the furniture, sitting on couches and chairs. Charlie sat 
on the rug between Jessica’s chair and Lamar’s. She wanted 


them all to stay close together. John sat down beside her 
and gave a little smile. 

“Did we get pranked?” Marla asked. 

“l guess maybe. I’m not sure what else would explain it,” 
Jessica said listlessly, staring into the empty fireplace. “I 
mean, none of us even knows each other that well, not 
really. Maybe he would do something like that.” They all 
shifted uncomfortably. It was true; they had been behaving 
as if their time apart were just a little break, like they could 
just fill one another in on what they had been up to, and it 
would be just like it was, just like their group had never split 
up. But ten years was too long for that to be true, and deep 
down everyone knew it. Charlie darted her eyes at John. She 
felt a little embarrassed, but she could not have expressed 
why. 

Clay came back in, carrying a tray of steaming mugs and 
a bag of little marshmallows. 

“Here you are!” he said jovially. “Hot chocolate for 
everyone, even me.” He set the tray down on the coffee 
table and took a seat in a battered green armchair that 
seemed to fit him like a coat, as accustomed to his body as 
he was to its form. They reached forward and took the cups; 
only Jason reached for the marshmallows. Clay looked 
around from face to face. 

“Look,” he said. “I know you don’t believe me, but 
Carlton does things like this—although | have to admit, this 
is probably the weirdest. It’s not right, making you relive all 
that stuff from when you were kids.” He stared into his mug 
for a long moment. “I need to have another talk with him,” 
he said quietly. “Believe me, my son has a strange sense of 
humor,” he went on. “You know, for high school we sent him 
to a place in the next town over. No one knew him. He 


managed to convince his classmates and his teachers that 
he had a twin brother at the school for the first month of 
class. | don’t know how on earth he managed it, but | didn’t 
find out until he got tired of the act and | started getting 
calls from school that one of my sons had gone missing.” 

Charlie smiled weakly, but she was not convinced. This 
was different. 

“This is different,” Marla said, as if reading Charlie’s 
thoughts. “Jason saw him disappear. He was terrified. It’s 
cruel, if it’s a prank.” Marla shook her head with anger and 
scratched her nails against the porcelain cup. “If it’s a 
prank,” she repeated in a softer tone. She looked at Charlie, 
her face stormy, and Charlie knew that if Carlton had, in 
fact, set all of this up, Marla would never speak to him 
again. Their happy reunion was over. 

“Yes,” Clay said, “I know. But he doesn’t see it that way.” 
He took a sip of cocoa, searching for words. “The twins, they 
had totally different personalities. Shaun was this outgoing, 
cheerful guy. He was on the debate team. He played soccer, 
for goodness’ sake! Carlton had never gotten near a sports 
game without being forced. | don’t Know how he kept it up.” 

“Still,” Marla said, but she sounded less convinced. 

“The worst part was,” Clay went on, talking more to 
himself now than to the teenagers, “Shaun had a girlfriend. 
She really liked him, too, but he was just playing the part. 
Poor girl had been dating a guy who didn’t even exist. | 
think he was surprised when he realized how upset people 
were. He gets carried away and just assumes everyone is 
having as much fun as he is.” 

Charlie looked at John, and he met her glance anxiously. 
We don’t know each other, not really. 

“Maybe he did set it up,” she said aloud. 


“Maybe,” Jessica echoed. 

“IT saw him!” Jason said loudly. Before anyone could 
respond, he stormed out of the room, disappearing through 
a doorway. Marla stood automatically and moved to follow 
him, but Clay put up a hand. 

“Let him go,” he said. “He needs some time to himself. 
And | want to talk to the rest of you.” He set his mug down 
and leaned forward. “I know you were just kidding around, 
but | don’t want to hear you kids joking about Freddy 
Fazbear’s. You know, | wasn’t the chief back then. | was still 
a detective, and | was working on those disappearances. To 
this day, it was the worst thing I’ve ever had to see. It’s not 
something to joke about.” He looked at Charlie. His gray 
eyes were hard, and the lines of his face were immobile; he 
was no longer the friendly father figure, but the police chief, 
staring as if he could see right through her. Charlie had a 
sudden urge to confess, but she had nothing to confess to. 

“I’m especially surprised at you, Charlie,” Clay said 
quietly. 

Charlie blushed, shame rising up in her with the flush of 
heat. She wanted to protest, to explain herself, to say 
anything that might soften the eyes that seemed to bore 
into her skull. Instead she ducked her head and muttered an 
indistinct apology. 

Lamar broke the silence. 

“Mr. Burke—Clay—did they ever find out who did it? | 
thought they arrested somebody.” 

Clay didn’t respond for a long moment. He was still 
looking at Charlie, and she felt as if he were trying to tell her 
something, or else read something in her face. 

“Clay?” Marla said, and he seemed to come back to 
himself. He looked around the group, his expression dark. 


“Yes,” he said quietly. “We did arrest someone. | did, in 
fact, and | am as sure now that he was guilty as | was then.” 

“So what happened?” Lamar asked. There was a hush 
among the group, as if something very important was about 
to happen. 

“There were no bodies,” Clay Burke said. “We knew it 
was him; there was no doubt in my mind. But the children 
had disappeared. They were never found, and without their 
bodies ...” He stopped talking, staring off into the middle 
distance as if scarcely aware that they were there. 

“But kidnapping,” Charlie said. “They disappeared!” She 
was suddenly furious, appalled at the obvious injustice. 
“How can this man be walking around somewhere? What if 
he does it again?” She felt Marla’s hand on her arm, and she 
nodded, settling back, trying to calm down. But the anger 
was still there inside, seething under the surface of her skin. 
Clay was looking at her with something like curiosity in his 
eyes. 

“Charlie,” he said, “justice penalizes the guilty, but it 
must also protect the innocent. It means that sometimes the 
guilty get away with terrible things, but it is the price we 
pay.” He sounded grave, his words weighty. Charlie opened 
her mouth to argue. But this was my price, she wanted to 
say, but before she spoke she looked at his face. He had a 
grim conviction about him; what he was saying mattered 
very much to him, and he believed it utterly. /t’s how you 
sleep at night, she thought with an _ uncharacteristic 
bitterness. They locked eyes for a long moment, then 
Charlie sighed and nodded, giving up the challenge. 
Intellectually, she didn’t even disagree with him. Clay sat up 
suddenly in his chair. 


“So,” he said brightly, “I think it’s a bit too late for you 
girls to be driving back to that motel. Why don’t you spend 
the night here? We have two more guest rooms. And you 
can scold Carlton for his little prank in the morning,” he 
added with a grin. 

Lamar and John showed Charlie, Marla, and Jessica up to 
the bedrooms, and Jason reemerged as they headed up the 
Stairs, joining the group like he had never been gone. 

“So Jason and | will take one,” Marla said, “and Jessica, 
you and Charlie can have the other.” 

“IT want to stay with Lamar,” Jason said instantly, and 
Lamar grinned widely before he could help himself. 

“Yeah, okay,” he said. He glanced at Marla over her 
brother’s head, and she shrugged. 

“Take him,” she said. “Keep him if you want! So that 
means someone gets her own room,” she went on, “or we 
could all stay together. | know everything is fine, but | kind 
of feel like we should stay together.” She was voicing 
Charlie’s precise thoughts from only a little while before, but 
now Charlie jumped in. 

“I'll take the other room,” she said. 

Marla gave her a dubious look, and even John looked a 
little surprised, but Charlie just looked at them and said 
nothing. 

When the door closed behind her, Charlie sighed with 
relief. She went to the window; it was as she imagined, 
nothing in view but the trees. The house seemed completely 
isolated, though she knew that the driveway and the road 
were just on the other side. From outside she could hear 
nocturnal birds and the rustling of other, larger creatures on 
the ground below. She felt suddenly restless, wide awake. 
Looking out the window, she almost wanted to go outside, 


to slip into the woods and see what they concealed. She 
looked at her watch. It was long past midnight, so with 
reluctance she took off her shoes and lay down on the bed. 

It was, like everything else in Carlton’s house, well worn, 
the kind of furniture only owned by people who have been 
wealthy for generations, whose ancestors could afford 
things of such high quality that they lasted for a hundred 
years. Charlie closed her eyes in what she assumed would 
be a futile effort to find rest, but as she lay there, listening 
to the sound of the woods and Jessica and Marla gossiping 
and laughing in the next room, she felt as if she were 
sinking into the mattress. Her breath deepened, and she 
was soon asleep. 

She woke suddenly, startled from sleep. She was a little 
girl again, and her father was asleep in the next room. It 
was summer, and the windows were all open; it had started 
to rain, and the wind rushed into the room in great gusts, 
blowing her bedroom curtains in a frenetic dance and 
ushering in a fine mist. But that was not why she awoke. 
There was something in the air, something unshakable that 
gripped her. Something was very wrong. 

Charlie climbed out of bed, lowering herself carefully 
onto the floor. Beside her bed stood Stanley the unicorn, 
patient and deactivated, staring at her with lifeless eyes. 
She patted his nose, as if giving him comfort might bring it 
to her as well. Quietly, she snuck past him and out into the 
hallway, uncertain what compelled her. She crept down the 
hallway, past her father’s room to the stairs, and ducked 
down beside the wooden bannister as if its open slats could 
protect her from anything at all. She held fast to it as she 
made her way down the staircase, letting the rail take her 
weight as she avoided the boards that creaked. One by one 


she took the steps; it felt like ages, like years might pass 
before she reached the bottom, and when she arrived she 
might be an old woman, her whole life spun out in the 
descent of these stairs. 

At last Charlie reached the end of the stairs, and she 
looked down to see that she had changed. Her body was no 
longer small, nightgown-clad and barefoot, but her teenage 
body, tall, strong, and fully clothed. When she straightened 
from her fearful crouch, she stood taller than the bannister, 
and she looked around at her childhood home, startled. This 
is me, she thought. Yes. This is now. 

Something banged in front of her. The front door was 
wide open and thudding irregularly against the wall, caught 
by the wind. The rain was whipping in, soaking the floor and 
lashing the coatrack that stood beside it, rocking it back and 
forth like it weighed nothing at all. Leaves and small 
branches were scattered on the floor, ripped from the trees 
and swept in, but Charlie’s eyes went to her old, familiar 
shoes, her favorites. They were placed neatly beside the 
mat, black patent leather with straps, and she could see the 
rain pooling inside and ruining them. Charlie stood still for a 
moment, transfixed, too far for the rain to reach but close 
enough for the haze to slowly wet her face. She ought to go 
to the door and close it. 

Instead, Charlie backed away slowly, not taking her eyes 
from the border of the storm. She took a step, then another 
—and her back hit something solid. She whirled around, 
startled, and saw it. 

It was the thing from her father’s workshop, the terrible, 
twitching thing. /t stood on its own, bent and twisted, with a 
narrow, reddish, canine face and an almost human body. Its 
clothing was rags, its metal joints and limbs stark and 


exposed, but Charlie registered only its eyes, the silver eyes 
that flashed at her, on and off, over and over, blinking in 
and out of existence. Charlie wanted to run, but her feet 
would not move. She could feel her pulse in her throat, 
choking her, and she struggled to breathe. The thing 
convulsed, and in slow, jerking motions its hand rose up and 
reached out to touch her face. Charlie drew in a shaking 
breath, unable to duck away, and then it stopped, the hand 
only inches from her cheek. 

Charlie braced herself, her breath shallow and her eyes 
screwed shut, but the touch of metal and ragged cloth on 
her skin did not come. She opened her eyes. The thing had 
gone still, and the silver light in its eyes was dimmed, nearly 
out. Charlie backed away from it, watching warily, but it did 
not move, and she began to wonder if it had shut down, run 
out of the finite current that powered it. Its shoulders were 
hunched forward, hapless, and it stared dully past her as if it 
were lost. Charlie felt a sudden stab of sorrow for this 
creature, that same feeling of lonely kinship she felt in her 
father’s workshop so many years ago. Does it hurt? she had 
asked. She was old enough now to know the answer. 

All at once, the thing lurched to life. Charlie felt her head 
go light as it took an awkward step toward her, hurtling its 
body forward as if it had only just learned to walk. Its head 
turned frantically from side to side, and its arms jerked up 
and down with dangerous abandon. 

Something shattered. It was a lamp, the thing had 
knocked over a ceramic lamp, and the sound of it bursting 
on the wooden floor shook Charlie from her stupor. She 
turned and ran up the stairs, scrambling as fast as her legs 
would carry her to her father’s door, too scared to even call 
out for him. As she clambered up the steps some small part 


of her realized that they were too big, that she was nearly 
on all fours, tripping barefoot over the hem of her 
nightgown. She was a little girl again, she realized in a 
bursting moment of awareness, and then it was over, and 
being a little girl was the only thing she could remember. 
She tried again to scream for her father, but he was 
already there. She did not need to call him. He was standing 
in the hall, and she grabbed at his shirttails as she crouched 
behind him. He put a hand on her shoulder, steadying her, 
and for the first time, her father’s touch did not make 
Charlie feel that she was safe. Peeking out from behind his 
back, Charlie could see the thing’s ears, then its face, as it 
climbed the stairs in its fitful, jerking steps. Her father stood 
calm, watching it, as it climbed the final stair, and then 
Charlie’s father grasped her hand and disentangled it, 
gently forcing her to let him go. He went forward to meet 
the thing in large, even strides, but as he reached out to it, 
Charlie could see that his hands were shaking. He touched 
the thing, put his hands on either side of its face for a long 
moment, as if he were caressing it, and its limbs stopped, 
head still moving gently from side to side. It looked almost 
bewildered, as if it, too, had awakened to something strange 
and frightening. Charlie’s father did something she could 
not see, and the thing stopped moving; its head drooped, 
defeated, and its arms fell to its sides. Charlie backed up 
toward her room, feeling her way along the wall behind her, 
not daring to look away from the thing until she was safely 
behind her door. As she looked out one last time into the 
hallway, she could just barely see the glint from its eyes, 
cast down at the floor. Suddenly, the little silver lights 
flickered. The head did not move, but in a slow, calculated 
arc the eyes swung to meet Charlie’s gaze. Charlie 


whimpered, but she did not look away, and then the head 
snapped up with a crack like something breaking— 

Charlie startled out of sleep, an involuntary shudder 
running through her. She put a hand to her throat, feeling 
her heartbeat there, too quick and too hard. She darted her 
eyes around the room, putting together where she was one 
piece at a time. The bed. Not her own. The room. Dark; she 
was alone. The window. The woods outside. Carlton’s house. 
Her breath slowed. The process had only taken seconds, but 
it disturbed her to be so disoriented. She blinked, but the 
afterburn of those silver eyes was still with her, glowing 
behind her eyelids as if they had been real. Charlie stood 
and went to the window, thrust it open, and leaned out, 
desperate to breathe in the night air. 

Did that happen? The dream felt like memory, felt like 
something that had happened just moments ago, but that 
was the nature of dreams, wasn’t it? They felt real, and then 
you woke up. She closed her eyes and tried to catch the 
thread, but it was too difficult to tell what was the dream 
and what was not. She shivered in the breeze, though it was 
not cold, and brought herself back inside. She looked at her 
watch. Only a couple of hours had passed, and it was still 
hours more until daylight, but sleep felt impossible. Charlie 
put on her shoes and shuffled quietly through the hall and 
down the stairs, hoping not to wake her friends. She went 
out to the porch, sitting down on the front steps and leaning 
back to look up at the sky. There were traces of clouds 
overhead, but the stars still shone through, scattered 
overhead, uncountable. She tried to lose herself in them as 
She had as a child, but as she gazed up at the pinpoint 
lights, all she could see were eyes, looking back at her. 


There was a noise behind her, and she jumped, whirling 
to press her back against the railing. John was standing 
behind her with a startled look on his face. They stared at 
each other for a moment like strangers, and then Charlie 
found her voice. 

“Hey, sorry, did | wake you up again?” 

John shook his head and came to sit beside her. 

“No, not really. | heard you go out, or | figured it was you. 
| was awake, though—Jason snores like a guy about three 
times his size.” 

Charlie laughed. 

“| had a weird dream,” she said. John nodded, waiting for 
her to go on, but she did not. “What did people think of my 
father?” she asked instead. John leaned back and looked at 
the stars for a moment, then pointed. 

“That’s Cassiopeia,” he said, and she squinted in the 
direction of his finger. 

“It’s Orion,” she corrected. “John, I’m serious. What did 
people think about him?” 

He shrugged uncomfortably. 

“Charlie, | was a little kid, you know? Nobody told me 
anything.” 

“| was a little kid once myself,” she said. “Nobody tells 
you anything, but they talk in front of you like you’re not 
there. | remember your mom and Lamar’s mom talking, 
making bets on how long Marla’s new stepdad would stick 
around.” 

“What did they come up with?” John said, amused. 

“Your mom was banking on three months; Lamar’s mom 
was more optimistic,” Charlie said, grinning, but then her 
face grew serious again. “I can tell you know something,” 
she said quietly, and after a moment he nodded. 


“Some people thought he did it, yeah,” he admitted. 

“What?” Charlie was aghast. She stared at him, eyes 
wide, scarcely breathing. “They thought what?” John 
glanced at her nervously. 

“| thought that’s what you were asking,” he said. Charlie 
shook her head. Some people thought he did it. 

“I—no, | meant what did they think of him as a person. 
Did they think he was odd, or kind, or ... | didn’t know ...” 
She trailed off, lost in the magnitude of this new truth. 
People thought he did it. Of course they did. It was his 
restaurant. The first child to vanish was Aj/s child. In the 
absence of a confession or a conviction, who else would 
anyone think of? Charlie shook her head again. 

“Charlie,” John said hesitantly, “I’m sorry. | just assumed. 
You must have known people would think that, though—if 
not then, then now.” 

“Well, | didn’t,” she snapped. She felt a_ hollow 
satisfaction when he drew back, hurt. She took a deep 
breath. “I know it sounds obvious,” she said in more even 
tones. “But it just never, ever occurred to me that anyone 
would think he was responsible. And then afterward, after 
he committed—” But that would have only reinforced their 
suspicions, she realized as she said it. 

“People thought it was because of the guilt,” John said, 
almost to himself. 

“It was.” Charlie felt anger welling up inside her, the dam 
about to break, and she held it back, biting off words in 
Short, sharp bursts. “Of course he felt guilt, it was his 
restaurant. His life’s work, his creations, and it was all 
turned into a massacre. Don’t you think that’s enough?” Her 
voice sounded vicious, even to her own ears. Apologize, she 
thought, but she ignored it. 


People thought he did it. He wouldn’t, he couldn’t. But if 
he had, how would she even have known? / knew him, she 
thought fiercely. But did she? She loved him, trusted him, 
with the blind devotion of a seven-year-old girl, even now. 
She understood him with the knowing and not-knowing that 
comes of being a child. When you focus on your parent as if 
they are the center of the earth, that thing on which your 
survival depends, only later do you realize their flaws, their 
scars, and their weaknesses. 

Charlie had never had the dawning moments of 
realization as she grew older that her father was only 
human; she had never had the chance. To her he was still 
mythic, still larger than life, still the man who could 
deactivate the monsters. He was also the man who made 
them. How well did she really know him? 

The rage was gone, had ebbed back to wherever it rose 
from, and she was empty of it, her insides dry and vacant. 
She closed her eyes and put a hand to her forehead. 

“I’m sorry,” she said, and John touched her shoulder for a 
brief moment. 

“Don’t be,” he said. Charlie put her hands over her face. 
She did not feel like crying, but she didn’t want him to see 
her face. She was thinking of things that were too new, too 
awful, to think in front of someone else. How would | have 
known if he did? 

“Charlie?” John cleared his throat and repeated her 
name. “Charlie, you Know he didn’t do it, right? Mr. Burke 
said they knew who did, but they had to let him go. He got 
away with it. Remember?” 

Charlie didn’t move, but something like hope stirred 
inside her. 

“It wasn’t him,” John said again, and she looked up. 


“Right. Right, of course it wasn’t,” she whispered. “Of 
course it wasn’t him,” she said at a normal pitch. 

“Of course not,” he echoed. She nodded, bobbing her 
head up and down like she was gathering momentum. 

“| want to go back to the house one more time,” she 
said. “I want you to come with me.” 

“Of course,” he said. She nodded again, then turned her 
face back up to the sky. 





Charlie!” Someone was at the door, knocking loud enough 
to rattle the old hinges. Charlie roused slowly, her eyes 
sticky with sleep, but this time at least she knew where she 
was. She had left the window open, and now the air coming 
in had a fresh, heavy smell: It was the scent of coming rain, 
mossy and rich. She got up and looked out the window, 
inhaling deeply. Unlike most of the world, the woods outside 
looked almost the same in the morning as they had in the 
dark. Charlie and John had gone back to bed soon after they 
finished talking. John had looked at her like there was more 
he wanted to say, but she had pretended not to notice. She 
was grateful to him for being there, for giving her what she 
needed without having to ask, because she would never 
have asked. 
“Charlie!” The banging came again, and she gave in. 


“I’m up, Marla,” she shouted back. 

“Charlie!” Now Jason was joining in the game, knocking 
and rattling, and Charlie groaned and went to the door. 

“| said I’m up,” she said, mock-glaring out at them. 

“Charlie!” Jason shouted again, and this time Marla 
shushed him. He grinned up at Charlie, and she laughed and 
shook her head. 

“Believe me, I’m awake,” she said. Marla was fully 
dressed, her hair a little damp from the shower, and her 
eyes were bright and alert. “Are you always like this?” 
Charlie said, her grumpiness only half-invented. 

“Like what?” 

“Chipper at six in the morning,” she said and rolled her 
eyes at Jason, who copied her, happy to be included. 

Marla smiled brightly. “It’s eight! Come on, there’s been 
talk of breakfast.” 

“Has there been talk of coffee?” 

Charlie followed Marla and Jason down the stairs to the 
kitchen, where she found Lamar and John already seated 
around a high, modern-looking wood table. Carlton’s father 
was at the stove, making pancakes. 

“It smells like rain,” Charlie said, and Lamar nodded. 

“There’s a thunderstorm coming,” he said. “It was on the 
news earlier, he told us.” He jerked a thumb at Clay. 

“It’s a big one!” Clay exclaimed in response. 

“We're supposed to leave today,” Jason said. 

“We'll see,” Marla said. 

“Charlie!” Clay cried, not taking his eyes off his work. 
“One, two, or three?” 

“Two,” Charlie said. “Thanks. Is there coffee?” 

“Help yourself. Mugs in the cupboard,” Clay said, 
gesturing to a full pot on the counter. Charlie helped herself, 


waving off offers of milk, cream, half-and-half, sugar, or fake 
Sugar. 

“Thanks,” she said quietly as she settled herself beside 
Lamar, meeting John’s eyes briefly. “Did Carlton come in?” 

Lamar shook his head, a tight jerk to the side. 

“He hasn’t turned up yet,” Clay said. “Probably isn’t 
awake yet, wherever he is.” He placed a full plate in front of 
Charlie, who dug in, not realizing how hungry she was until 
she was already chewing. She was about to ask where 
Carlton was likely to be when Jessica appeared, yawning, 
her clothes unrumpled, unlike Charlie’s. 

“You're late,” Marla teased, and Jessica stretched 
elaborately. 

“I! don’t get out of bed until the pancakes are ready,” she 
said, and with impeccable timing Clay slapped one onto a 
plate, fresh off the pan. 

“Well, you're just in time,” he said. Suddenly, his 
expression changed, wavering somehow _ between 
apprehension and relief. Charlie turned in her seat. There 
was a woman standing behind her, dressed in a gray skirt 
suit, her blonde hair shellacked against her head as if she 
were a plastic toy. 

“Are we a Waffle House now?” she asked. She looked 
around the kitchen briefly. 

“Pancakes,” Jessica corrected, but no one responded. 

“Betty!” Clay cried. “You remember the boys, and this is 
Charlie, Jessica, and Marla. And Jason.” He pointed to each 
in turn, and Carlton’s mother gave each of them a nod, like 
she was tallying them up. 

“Clay, | have to be in court in an hour.” 

“Betty’s the D.A. for the county,” Clay went on as if he 
had not heard her. “I catch the crooks; she puts ‘em back 


out on the streets!” 

“Yes, our family is a full-service operation,” she said 
dryly, pouring herself coffee and settling down at the table 
beside Jessica. “Speaking of which, where’s our young felon- 
to-be?” 

Clay hesitated. “Another one of his pranks,” he said. 
“He'll be back home later, I’m sure.” Their eyes met, and 
something private passed between them. Betty broke away 
with a laugh that sounded a little forced. 

“Oh, Lord, what is it this time?” There was a moment’s 
pause. In the morning light, the story sounded insane, and 
Charlie had no idea where to begin. With a nervous clearing 
of his throat, Lamar started to explain. 

“We, uh—we went up to the mall construction site, to go 
see what was left of Freddy Fazbear’s.” 

At the name, Betty’s head jerked up, and she gave a 
quick nod. 

“Go on,” she said, her voice suddenly cold and clipped. 

Lamar explained, awkwardly, and Marla and Jason 
jumped in with details. After a few minutes, Carlton’s 
mother had a messy version of the truth. As she listened, 
her face hardened until it looked like plaster; she was a 
statue of herself. She shook her head as they finished, 
Small, rapid movements, and Charlie thought she looked like 
she was not just trying to deny what they were saying, but 
to shake the knowledge entirely from her mind. 

“You have to go get him, Clay, right now,” she 
demanded. “Send someone! How could you wait all night?” 

She set her coffee on the table more forcefully than she 
Should have, spilling a little, then went to the phone and 
started dialing. 

“Who are you calling?” Clay said, alarmed. 


“The police,” she snapped. 

“| am the police!” 

“Then why are you here instead of finding my son?” 

Clay opened and closed his mouth helplessly for a 
moment before finding his bearings. 

“Betty, it’s just another joke. Remember the frogs?” 

She set the phone back on its hook and turned to face 
him, her eyes smoldering. Charlie could suddenly see her 
standing righteous before a jury, wreaking the wrath of the 
law. 

“Clay.” Her voice was low and steady, a dangerous calm. 
“How could you not wake me up? How could you not tell me 
this?” 

“Betty, you were asleep! It’s just Carlton being Carlton. | 
didn’t want to disturb you.” 

“Did you think | would be less disturbed when | woke up 
and found him missing?” 

“| thought he would be back by now,” Clay protested. 

“This is different,” she said with finality. “It’s Freddy’s.” 

“1 don’t understand Freddy’s? | know what happened 
there, what happened to those kids,” he retorted. “/ don’t 
understand? For goodness’ sake, Betty, | saw Michael’s 
blood, streaked across the floor where he was dragged from 
—”" He stopped, realizing too late that he was surrounded by 
the teenagers. He looked around at them, near panic, but 
his wife had not noticed—or, Charlie thought, she just did 
not care. 

“Well, you didn’t see him,” Betty snapped. “Do you 
remember what you told Carlton? Be tough? Be brave, little 
soldier? So he was brave, he was a little soldier for you. He 
was Shattered, Clay! He had lost his best friend, had Michael 
Snatched away right in front of him. Let me tell you 


something, chief: That boy has thought about Michael every 
single day of his life for the last ten years. | have seen him 
stage jokes so elaborate they deserve to be mounted as 
performance art pieces, but there is no way on earth that 
Carlton would desecrate Michael’s memory by making 
Freddy’s a joke. Call someone right now.” 

Clay looked slightly shocked, but he gathered himself 
quickly and left the room. Charlie heard a door slam shut 
behind him. Betty looked around at the teenagers, breathing 
hard as if she had been running. 

“Everything is going to be fine,” she said tightly. “If he is 
trapped in there, we will get him out. What do you kids have 
planned for the day?” The question was inane, as if they 
were all going to hang out at the park or go to a movie while 
Carlton might be in danger. 

“We were supposed to leave today,” Marla said. 

“Obviously we won't,” Lamar said hastily, but Betty did 
not seem to be listening to them. 

“I'll have to call in to work,” she said distractedly and 
went to the phone to make the call. Charlie looked at John, 
who jumped to the rescue. 

“We were going to go to the library,” he said. “We had 
some things we wanted to investigate—research!” He 
blushed faintly when he said it, and Charlie knew why. It was 
absurd to be talking like this, about cases and 
disappearances and murders. But Marla was nodding. 

“Yeah, we'll all go,” she said, and Charlie’s heart sank. 
There was no reason she couldn’t just tell them all that she 
wanted to go back to her old house, just her and John. No 
one would be hurt. But that wasn’t the problem—even 
Sharing the knowledge felt too much like exposure. Carlton’s 
mother hung up the phone, done with her call. 


“| hate this,” she announced to the room in general, her 
careful, controlled voice almost shaking. “/ hate this!” 
Charlie and the others jumped in unison, startled by the 
sudden outburst. “And now, like always, | get to sit here by 
myself hoping and praying that everyone will be okay.” 

Charlie looked at Marla, who shrugged helplessly. Lamar 
cleared his throat nervously. “I think we’ll stick around for 
another day,” he said. There was a pause, then Marla and 
Jessica jumped in to help. 

“Yeah, traffic is crazy out there,” Jessica said, high- 
pitched and forced. 

“Yeah, and also because of the storm, and it’s not like 
we’re going to have fun knowing he’s missing,” Marla said. 

“| guess you’re stuck with us.” Jessica flashed an anxious 
smile at Carlton’s mother, who did not seem to register it. 

“Come on,” John said before anyone else could speak. He 
and Charlie hurried out of the house and got into the car. 

Charlie heaved a sigh of relief as she started the engine. 
“That was awful,” she said. 

“Yeah.” He gave her a worried look. “What do you think? 
About Carlton?” 

Charlie didn’t answer until she was safely backed out of 
the driveway. “I think his mom is right,” she said, pulling 
into gear. “I think last night we all let ourselves believe what 
we wanted to believe.” 


Officer Dunn pulled to a stop in the mall parking lot, 
responding to Chief Burke’s order to return. In the light of 
day it was just an abandoned construction site, an ugly 
blemish on the flat desert landscape. You can’t tell from 


looking if it’s being built up or torn down, Dunn thought. 
Can't tell creation from destruction at a distance. He liked 
the phrase; he turned it over in his head for a moment, 
staring at the place. On impulse, he radioed dispatch. 

“Hey, Norah,” he said. 

“Dunn,” she answered crisply. “What’s going on?” 

“Back at the mall for another look,” he said. 

“Ooh, bring me back a soft pretzel,” she teased. He 
laughed and broke the connection. 

As he walked briskly through the mall, Dunn was at least 
grateful the children were not there this time. As the 
youngest member of the Hurricane Police Department, Dunn 
always took care to think of teenagers as children, even 
though he knew how small the gap between them was. If he 
could bring them to believe he was a responsible adult, 
hopefully at some point he would believe it, too. 

Dunn flipped on his flashlight as he reached the entrance 
to the narrow alleyway that led to Freddy Fazbear’s. He 
swept the beam up and down the walls ahead of him, but 
the alley was empty of life. He took a deep breath and went 
in. Dunn kept to the wall, his shoulder brushing lightly 
against the rough brick as he tried to avoid the puddles that 
pooled beneath leaky pipes. The bright beam of his 
flashlight illuminated the alley almost as well as overhead 
bulbs, but somehow the light was not comforting—it only 
made the place look stark and grim, the shelves of tools and 
rejected paint cans now woeful and exposed. As he moved 
toward the door to the restaurant, something tiny and cold 
landed on his head, and he startled, swinging his light up 
like a weapon and pressing his back against the wall as 
defense against the threat. Another cold drop of water 
landed on his cheek. He took deep breaths. 


When at last he reached the outer door to the restaurant, 
the shelf that had blocked it was gone. The chains that had 
seemed so permanently fixed in place were hanging loose, 
and the door was cracked open slightly. The immense, 
rusted padlock lay in the dirt, its shackle hanging open. 
Dunn kicked it away from the door. He dug his fingers into 
the gap, prying until he could get a grip on it, then pulled at 
the door with both hands until it screeched open wide 
enough for him to enter. He crept down the inner passage 
with his light held out in front, hugging the wall tight to one 
side. The air seemed to change as he moved closer to the 
interior of the restaurant, and Dunn felt a crawling chill that 
penetrated his uniform and fed his growing anxiety. 

“Don’t freak out, Dunn,” he said out loud, then felt 
instantly foolish. 

He reached the main dining area and stopped, sweeping 
the light over each wall in turn. The light seemed dimmer 
inside, swallowed by the space. The room was empty, but it 
was just as he remembered from when he was a kid. He had 
been ten when the tragedies started, eleven when they 
ended. His birthday party was supposed to be at Freddy’s, 
but after the first disappearance his mother had cancelled 
it, invited his friends to his house, and hired a clown, which 
proved equally terrifying. Smart move, Mom, Dunn thought. 
The beam played over the little carousel, which he had 
never ridden, claiming he was too old for it. Just before the 
beam of light reached the stage, Dunn stopped, swallowing 
hard. The rabbit took him, the kid had said. Dunn shook 
himself and played the light across the stage. 

The figures were there, just as he remembered, and, 
unlike the carousel, they did not seem diminished in size. 
They were exactly as he recalled, and for a moment an 


almost painful nostalgia swelled in his chest. As he gazed at 
them, remembering, he noticed that their eyes were all 
fixed oddly forward like they were watching something on 
the far side of the room. The flashlight trained in front of 
him, Dunn approached the stage until he was standing only 
a few feet from it, and he stared up at each of the animals 
in turn. Bonnie was holding his guitar jauntily, as if he might 
begin strumming whenever the mood struck him, and Chica 
and her cupcake seemed to be sharing some arcane secret. 
Freddy, with his microphone, stared out into the distance, 
unblinking. 

Something moved behind him, and Dunn whirled around, 
his heart racing. The flashlight found nothing, and he swept 
it nervously from side to side, revealing only empty tables. 
He glanced back nervously at Bonnie, but the rabbit was still 
frozen in his own inscrutable reverie. 

Dunn took shallow breaths, holding himself completely 
still, and listened, his senses kicked into high gear with 
adrenaline. After a moment the noise came again—a 
shuffling sound, this time coming from off to the right. He 
swept the light instantly toward it. There was an open 
doorway, and beyond it a hall. Crouching down, Dunn made 
his way down the hall, keeping to the side as though 
something might come running past. Why am / here alone? 
He knew the answer. His sergeant hadn’t taken the search 
seriously—in truth, neither had Dunn. After all, it was just 
the chief's son again, making trouble. /t’s probably just 
Carlton, Dunn reminded himself. 

He reached the end of the hall, where a door stood ajar. 
With one hand Dunn gave the door an inward push, 
dropping low and to the side as he did. The door swung 
inward, and nothing happened. He pulled the nightstick 


from his belt. Its heft was unfamiliar—he had never had 
much need for it in Hurricane. Now, though, he gripped its 
hard rubber handle like a lifeline. 

The office was not quite empty; there was a small desk, 
and a folded-up metal chair leaned against it. A large 
cabinet stood against one wall, its door open just a crack. 
There were no exits other than the one Dunn was standing 
in. He swept the light up and down the length of the cabinet 
and took a deep breath. He bounced his nightstick lightly in 
his hand, reassuring himself of its presence, and carefully 
assessed the small space. Standing to the side, he used the 
stick to open the door, moving slowly. It came open easily, 
and again, everything was still. Relieved, Dunn looked 
inside. The cabinet was empty—except for a costume. 

It was Bonnie, or rather it wasn’t. The face was the same, 
but the rabbit’s fur was yellow. It was slumped lifelessly 
against the back wall of the cabinet, its eyes dark, gaping 
holes. The rabbit took him. The kid hadn’t been lying, then; 
Carlton must have gotten someone to dress up in this outfit 
to help him play his trick. Still, Dunn’s unease did not abate; 
he did not want to touch the thing. He lowered his light and 
stuck his nightstick back in his belt, intending to go. 

Before he could turn, the costume pitched forward, 
landing on Dunn with the lifeless weight of a heavy corpse. 
For a moment it did not move, then all at once it was 
writhing violently, grabbing at him with strong, inhuman 
hands. Dunn screamed, a desperate, high sound, struggling 
as the rabbit gripped his shirt, then his arm. Dunn felt a 
sudden, vicious pain, and a small, detached part of his mind 
thought, He broke it; he broke my arm. But the pain was 
washed numb by terror as the rabbit swung him around and 
Slammed him into the cabinet door, taking Dunn’s weight 


easily as if he were a child. Dunn struggled to breathe; the 
rabbit’s arm was pressed against his neck so tightly that 
every movement choked him. Just when he thought he was 
on the brink of passing out, the pressure lifted, and Dunn 
gasped with relief, clutching his throat. Then he saw the 
knife. 

The rabbit held a slim silver blade. Its big, matted paws 
should have been too clumsy, but Dunn knew as he stared 
down at it that the rabbit had done this before and would 
easily do it again. Dunn screamed, an indistinct shriek. He 
had no hope that he would be heard; it was only a guttural, 
despairing noise. He breathed deep and did it again, a 
bestial sound, his whole body vibrating with it, as if this 
could somehow be defense against what happened next. 

The knife went in. Dunn felt it tear through skin and 
muscle, felt it sever things he could not name to plant itself 
deep in his chest. As he seized with pain and terror, the 
rabbit pulled him close, almost in an embrace. Dunn’s head 
went light; he was losing consciousness. As he looked up, he 
could see two rows of smiling teeth, horrid and yellow, the 
costume peeling at the edges of the mouth. The two gaping 
holes for eyes looked down at him. They were dark and 
hollow, but the creature drew near enough that Dunn could 
see smaller eyes peering back at him from deep within the 
mask. They held Dunn’s gaze patiently. Dunn felt his legs go 
numb, his vision clouding. He wanted to scream again, to 
somehow voice his final outrage, but he could not move his 
face, could not raise the breath to cry out. The rabbit held 
him upright, supporting his weight, and its eyes were the 
last thing Dunn ever saw. 


Charlie unlocked the front door to her old house and looked 
back down the front steps. 

“You coming?” 

John was still standing on the bottom step, staring up at 
the house. He shivered a little before hurrying to join her. 

“Sorry,” he said sheepishly. “I just had a weird feeling for 
a second.” Charlie laughed without much humor. 

“Just for a second?” 

They went inside, and John stopped again, looking 
around the front room like he had just stepped into a sacred 
place, somewhere that merited a humbling pause. Charlie 
bit her tongue, trying not to be impatient. It was how she 
had felt as well; she might have felt that way now if she 
were not overwhelmed by a sense of urgency, the feeling 
that the answer to everything, the answer to how to get 
Carlton back, must be somewhere in this place. Where else 
could it possibly be? 

“John,” she said, “it’s okay. Come on.” 

He nodded and followed her up the stairs to the second 
floor. He stopped again briefly halfway up, and Charlie saw 
his eyes fixed on the dark stain that marred the wood floor 
of the living room. 

“Is—”" he began to say, then swallowed it and started 
over. “Is Stanley still there?” 

Charlie pretended not to notice the lapse. 

“You remember his name!” she said instead, grinning. 
John shrugged. 

“Who doesn’t love a mechanical unicorn?” 

“Yeah, he’s still there. All the toys still work. Come on.” 
They hurried the rest of the way to her room. 

John knelt down beside the unicorn and pressed the 
button that set him on his track, watching raptly as he made 


his squeaky way around the room. Charlie hid a smile 
behind her hand. John was watching intently, his face 
serious as if something very important were happening. For 
a moment he looked just like he had so many years ago, his 
hair falling into his face, his whole attention fixed on Stanley 
like nothing in the world was more important than this 
robotic creature. 

Suddenly his attention was called upward, and his face lit 
up as he pointed. 

“Your big-girl closet! It’s open!” he exclaimed, getting 
back to his feet and approaching the tallest of the three 
closets, which was hanging open slightly. He pulled it open 
all the way, then leaned in, finding it empty. “So what was in 
it all those years?” he asked. 

“Not sure,” Charlie said with a shrug. “I sort of remember 
Aunt Jen bringing me back at some point, but | could be 
wrong. Maybe it was full of clothes that | was finally big 
enough to wear. Aunt Jen was always thrifty—why spend 
money on new clothes if you don’t have to, right?” She 
smiled. 

John glanced briefly at the smaller closets, but he left 
them alone. 

“I’m going to see if | can find any photo albums or 
paperwork,” Charlie said, and she nodded absently as 
Stanley rattled back to his starting point. As she left the 
room, she heard him starting up again, making another 
round on the track. 

The room that had been her father’s was next to 
Charlie’s. It was at the back of the house, and it had too 
many windows. In the summer it was too hot, and in the 
winter the cold dribbled in like a persistent leak, but Charlie 
had known without being told why he used it. From here you 


could see the garage and his workshop. It had always made 
sense to Charlie; that was his place, like a part of him 
always lived there, and he did not like to be too far away 
from his touchstone. A wave from her dream came to her for 
a moment, not even an image, just a strange, evocative 
gesture of memory. She frowned, looking out the window at 
the closed, silent garage door. 

Or maybe he just wanted to be sure nothing got out, she 
thought. She broke away from the window, shrugging her 
Shoulders and shaking her hands, sloughing off the feeling. 
She looked around the room. Like her own, it was all but 
untouched. She did not open the drawers to his dresser, but 
for all she knew, it might still have been filled with shirts 
and socks, clean, folded, and ready to wear. His bed was 
made crisply, covered in the plaid blanket he used as a 
bedspread after Charlie’s mother left, when there was no 
one to insist on white linen. There was a large bookcase 
against one wall, and it was still stuffed with books. Charlie 
went over and began scanning the shelves. Many were 
textbooks, engineering tomes whose titles meant nothing to 
her, and the rest were nonfiction, a collection that would 
have seemed eclectic to anyone who did not know the man. 

There were books on biology and anatomy, some on 
human beings and others on animals; there were books 
about the history of the traveling carnival and of the circus. 
There were books about child development, about myths 
and legends, and about sewing patterns and techniques. 
There were volumes that claimed to be about trickster gods, 
about quilting bees, and about football cheering squads and 
their mascots. On the very top shelf were stacks of file 
folders, and the bottom shelf was empty except for a single 
book: a photo aloum, leather-bound and as pristine as time 


and dust could allow. Charlie grabbed it, and it stuck for a 
moment, almost too tall for the low shelf it had been given. 
After a minute it came free, and she headed back to her 
bedroom, leaving the door open with the sudden sense that 
if it closed she might never get back in. 

John was sitting on the bed when she returned, looking at 
Stanley with his head tilted to the side. 

“What?” Charlie said, and he looked up, still pensive. 

“I was wondering if he’s been lonely,” he said, then 
shrugged. 

“He’s got Theodore,” Charlie said, pointing to the stuffed 
rabbit with a smile. “It’s Ella who’s all alone in the closet. 
Watch.” She placed the album beside John on the bed and 
went to its foot, then turned the wheel that set Ella on her 
track. She sat down beside him, and they watched together, 
spellbound as of old, as the little doll came out in her crisp, 
clean dress to blankly offer tea. Neither of them spoke until 
the smallest closet door closed behind her. John cleared his 
throat. 

“So what’s in the book?” 

“Photos,” Charlie said. “Il haven’t looked at them yet.” 
She picked up the album and opened it at random. The top 
picture was of her mother holding a baby, maybe a year old. 
She held the child above her head, flying it like an airplane, 
her head thrown back in the midst of a laugh, her long 
brown hair swinging out in an arc behind her. The baby’s 
eyes were wide, its mouth open in delight. John smiled at 
her. 

“You look so happy,” he said, and she nodded. 

“Yeah,” she said. “Il guess | must have been.” /f that’s 
me, she did not add aloud. She opened to another page, 
where the only picture was a large family portrait, stiffly 


posed at a studio. They were dressed formally: Charlie’s 
father was wearing a suit; her mother was in a bright-pink 
dress with padding that lifted her shoulders almost to her 
ears, and her brown hair was straightened flat in place. Each 
of them was holding a baby, one in a white frilly dress and 
One in a Sailor suit. Charlie’s heart skipped, and beside her 
She heard John take a sharp, quick breath. She looked at 
him with a feeling like the floor was dropping away beneath 
them. 

“It was real,” she said. “I didn’t imagine him.” 

John said nothing in response, just nodded. He put a 
hand on her shoulder briefly, and then they turned back to 
the photo album. 

“We all looked so happy,” Charlie said softly. 

“| think you were,” John said. “Look, you had such a 
goofy smile.” He pointed, and Charlie laughed. 

The whole book was like that, the first memories of a 
happy family who expected there to be many more. They 
were not arranged chronologically, so Charlie and Sammy 
appeared as toddlers, then as newborns, then at various 
stages in between. Except on formal occasions when Charlie 
was put into a dress—of which there seemed to be few—it 
was impossible to tell which baby was which. There were no 
traces of Fredbear’s Family Diner. 

Near the back of the book, Charlie came to a Polaroid of 
her and Sammy together, infants bright red and squalling on 
their backs, wearing nothing but diapers and hospital 
wristbands. On the white space below the picture someone 
had written, “Momma’s Boy and Daddy’s Girl.” 

The rest of the pages were blank. Charlie went back 
again, opening at random to find a strip from a photo booth, 
four shots of her parents alone. They smiled at each other, 


then made faces at the camera, then laughed, missing the 
chance to pose and blurring their faces. Lastly they smiled 
into the lens. Her mother was beaming happily at the 
camera, her face alight and flushed, but her father was 
staring into the distance, a smile fixed on his face like he 
had left it there by mistake. His dark eyes were intense, 
remote, and Charlie resisted a sudden urge to look behind 
her, as if she might see whatever it was he was looking at. 
She peeled back the cellophane from the album’s page and 
took the strip out, then folded it in half, careful to place the 
crease between pictures, leaving them intact. She slipped 
the pictures into her pocket and looked at John, who was 
watching her again as if she were some kind of 
unpredictable creature he needed to be careful around. 

“What?” she said. 

“Charlie, you know | don’t think he did it, right?” 

“You said that.” 

“I’m serious. It’s not just what Carlton’s dad said. | knew 
him, as well as a kid can know some other kid’s dad—he 
wouldn’t do it. | wouldn’t believe it.” He spoke with calm 
certainty, like someone who believed that the world was 
made out of facts and tangible things and that there was 
such a thing as truth. Charlie nodded. 

“| know,” she said. She took her next breath slowly, 
gathering the words she would speak with it. “But | might.” 
His eyes widened, startled, and she looked up at the ceiling 
for a minute, briefly trying to remember if all the cracks had 
been there when she was a child. 

“1 don’t mean | think he did it; | don’t think that,” she 
said. “I don’t think about it at all. | can’t. | shut the whole 
thing off in my mind the day | left Hurricane. | don’t think 


about Freddy’s. | don’t think about what happened, and | 
don’t think about him.” 

John was looking at her like she was monstrous, like what 
she was saying was the worst thing he had ever heard. 

“| don’t understand how you can say things like that,” he 
said quietly. “You loved him. How can you even consider the 
possibility that he would do something so terrible?” 

“Even the people who do terrible things have people who 
love them.” Charlie was looking for words. “I don’t think he 
did it; I’m not saying that,” she said again, and again the 
words hit the air as flimsy as paper. “But | remember him 
dressing up for us in the yellow Freddy suit, doing the 
dances, miming along with the songs. It was so much a part 
of him. He was the restaurant; there was no one else. And 
he was always so distant, like in that picture; there was 
always something else going on beneath the surface. It was 
like he had a real life and a secret life, you know?” 

John nodded and looked about to speak, but Charlie 
rushed on before he could. 

“We were the secret life. His real life was his work; it was 
what mattered. We were his guilty pleasure, the thing he got 
to love and sneak away to have time with, something he 
kept hidden away from the dangers of what he did in his 
real world. And when he was with us, there was always a 
part of him that was back in reality, whatever that was for 
him.” 

Again John opened his mouth, but Charlie snapped the 
photo album shut, stood up, and left the room. John didn’t 
follow right away, and as she traversed the short hall to her 
father’s bedroom, she could almost hear him making up his 
mind. Not waiting for him, she went to the bookshelf, 
wanting to get the book out of her hands, like maybe if it 


were closed up and put away, her mind, too, would return to 
its normal order. The book would not fit, and she dropped to 
her knees to get a better angle, trying to jam the thing back 
where it belonged, get it out of her hands. The shelf seemed 
to have shrunk, sunk down while she was gone, so that it 
could never be returned, never put right. 

With a cry of frustration, Charlie shoved the photo album 
in as hard as she could. The shelf rocked back and then 
forward, and a sudden mass of papers and file folders 
tumbled from above her. Charlie began to cry as pages 
drifted down around her, covering the floor like snow as she 
wept. Swiftly, John was there. 

He knelt down with her in the delicate wreckage, clearing 
papers away as quickly as he could without tearing them. 
He put a hand on her shoulder carefully, and she did not 
move away. He pulled her close and held her, and she 
hugged him back, gripping so tight she knew she must be 
hurting him, but she could not let go. She sobbed harder, as 
if being held, being contained, made it safe to let go. Long 
minutes passed; John stroked her hair, and Charlie still 
cried, her body shaking with the force of it, shuddering like 
She was possessed. She was not thinking of what had 
happened, not flitting from one memory to the next to 
mourn for them all—her mind was all but blank. She held 
nothing, was nothing, but this feeling of racking sobs. Her 
face was sore with tension, her chest hurt like all her pain 
was being forced out through its wall, and still she cried as if 
she would cry forever. 

But forever was an illusion. Slowly her breathing calmed, 
and finally Charlie returned to herself and pushed away 
from John’s shoulder, exhausted. Once again John was left 
with his arms partially suspended in the air, caught off 


guard by their sudden emptiness. He tried to move out of 
the awkward pose without calling attention to himself. 
Charlie sat back against the side of her father’s bed, leaning 
her head against it. She felt wrung out, stretched thin and 
aged, but she felt a little better. She gave John a tiny smile, 
and she saw relief pass over his face at this first sign that 
she might be all right. 

“I’m okay,” she said. “It’s just this place; it’s all this.” She 
felt silly trying to explain, but John scooted back to sit with 
her. 

“Charlie, you don’t have to explain. | know what 
happened.” 

“Do you?” She looked at him searchingly, not sure how to 
put the question. It seemed too crude, too graphic, to say it 
outright. “Do you know how my dad died, John?” 

He looked immediately nervous. “I know he killed 
himself,” he said hesitantly. 

“No, | mean—do you know how?” 

“Oh.” John looked down at his feet as if he could not 
meet her eyes. “I thought he stabbed himself,” he said 
quietly. “| remember hearing my mom and dad talk—she 
said something about a knife, and all the blood.” 

“There was a knife,” Charlie said. “And there was blood.” 
She closed her eyes and kept them shut as she talked. She 
could feel John’s eyes on her face, watching every 
movement, but she knew if she looked at him she would not 
be able to finish. 

“| never saw it,” she said. “I mean, | never saw the body. 
| don’t know if you remember, but my aunt came to get me 
at school in the middle of the day.” She stopped, waiting for 
confirmation, her eyes shut tight. 


“Il remember,” John’s voice said from the darkness. “It 
was the last time | ever saw you.” 

“Yeah. She came and got me, and | knew something was 
wrong—you don’t go home from school in the middle of the 
day because everything’s fine. She took me outside to her 
car, but we didn’t get in right away. She picked me up and 
set me on the hood of the car, and she told me she loved 
me.” 

“Il love you, Charlie, and everything is going to be okay,” 
Aunt Jen said, and then she destroyed the world with the 
next words she spoke. 

“She told me that my father had died, and she asked if | 
knew what that meant.” 

And Charlie nodded, because she did know, and because, 
with an awful prescience, she was not surprised. 

“She said | was going to stay with her for a couple of 
days, and we would go get some clothes from the house. 
When we got there, she picked me up like | was a little kid, 
and as we went through the door, she covered my face with 
her hand so | wouldn’t see what was in the living room. But | 
did see.” 

It was one of his creatures, one she had never seen, and 
it was facing the stairs; its head was bowed a little so that 
Charlie could see that the back of its skull was open, the 
circuits exposed. The limbs and joints lay bare, a skeleton of 
naked metal strung with twisting wires of bloodless 
circulation, and its arms were outstretched in a lonesome 
facsimile of an embrace. It was standing in the middle of a 
dark, still pool of some liquid that seemed, though it must 
have been imperceptible, to be spreading. She could see its 
face, if it could be called a face—its features were scarcely 
formed, crude and shapeless. Even so, Charlie could see 


that they were contorted, almost grotesque; the thing would 
be weeping, if it could have wept. She stared at it for ages, 
though it could have been less than seconds, no more than 
a glimpse as Aunt Jen swept her up the stairs. Yet she had 
seen it so many times since then, when she slept, when she 
woke, when she unguardedly closed her eyes. It would 
appear to her, the face pressing its way into her mind as it 
had pressed into the world. Its blind eyes were only raised 
bumps like the eyes of a statue, seeing nothing but its own 
grief. In its hand, almost an afterthought, was the knife. 
When Charlie saw the knife, the whole thing snapped into 
focus. She knew what the thing was, and she knew what it 
had been built for. 

John was staring at her, horror creeping in. 

“That’s how he ... ?” He trailed off. 

Charlie nodded. “Of course.” He made a move to comfort 
her again, but it was the wrong thing to do. Without 
thinking, Charlie moved slightly, slipping out of reach, and 
his face fell. 

“Sorry,” she said quickly. “I just—sorry.” 

John shook his head quickly and turned to the jumble of 
papers on the floor. 

“We should look through these, see if there’s anything 
here,” he said. 

“Sure,” she said brusquely, dismissing his attempts at 
reassurance. 

They began randomly; everything had fallen in such a 
mess that there was no other way to begin. Most of the 
papers were engineering blueprints and pages of equations, 
incomprehensible to them both. There were tax forms, 
which John took up eagerly, hoping for information about 


Fredbear’s Family Diner, but he gave up with a sigh after 
fifteen minutes, flinging the papers down. 

“Charlie, | can’t figure this out. Let’s check through the 
rest, but | don’t think puzzling at it is going to turn us into 
mathematicians or accountants.” 

Stubbornly, Charlie kept picking through the papers, 
hoping for something she would understand. She picked up 
a sheaf of paper, trying to straighten the next stack, and a 
photograph fell out from the pile. John snatched it up. 

“Charlie, look,” he said, suddenly excited. She took it 
from his hand. 

It was her father, in his workshop, wearing the yellow 
Freddy Fazbear costume. The head was tucked under his 
arm, staring sightlessly into the camera, but Charlie’s father 
was smiling, his face pink and sweaty as if he had been in 
the costume for a long time. Beside him was a yellow 
Bonnie. 

“The yellow rabbit,” Charlie said. “Jason said there was a 
yellow rabbit.” 

“But your father is in the bear costume.” 

“The rabbit must be a robot,” Charlie said. “Look at the 
eyes, they’re red.” She peered closer. The eyes were 
glinting red, but they weren’t glowing, and in a moment she 
saw why. “It’s not red eyes, it’s red eye! There’s a person in 
there!” 

“So who... ?” 

“.,. who is in the suit?” Charlie finished the question for 
him. 

“We have to go to the library,” John said, jumping to his 
feet. Charlie stayed where she was, still staring down at the 
picture. “Charlie?” 

“Yeah,” she said. He held out a hand to pull her up. 


As they descended the staircase, John hung back briefly, 
but Charlie did not turn around. She knew what he was 
imagining, because she was picturing it, too: the stain on 
the floor, slowly spreading. 


* OK OX 


Charlie drove fast to the library, a grim urgency hanging 
over her. The promised storm was in the air, the smell of it 
rising like a warning. In a strange way, the worsening 
weather satisfied something in Charlie. Storms _ inside, 
storms outside. 

“I’ve never been this eager to get to the library,” John 
joked, and she smiled tightly, without humor. 

The main library in Hurricane was next to the elementary 
school where they had gone for the memorial ceremony, 
and as they got out of the car, Charlie glanced at the 
playground, envisioning children screaming and laughing as 
they ran circles, immersed in their games. We were so 
young. 

They hurried up the few steps to the library together, a 
square, modern brick building that looked as if it had come 
paired with the school beside it. She only remembered the 
library vaguely from her childhood; they had gone 
infrequently, and Charlie had spent all her time there sitting 
on the floor in the children’s section. Being able to see over 
the information desk was slightly disconcerting. 

The librarian was young, Charlie thought, an athletic- 
seeming woman in slacks and a purple sweater. She smiled 
brightly. 

“What can | do for you?” she said. Charlie hesitated. The 
woman was maybe in her late twenties; Charlie realized that 


ever since she returned to Hurricane she had been paying 
attention to age, scrutinizing each face and calculating how 
old they had been when ijt happened. This woman would 
have been a teenager. /t doesn’t matter, she thought. You 
still have to ask. She opened her mouth to ask for 
information about Fredbear’s, but what came out instead 
was, “Are you from Hurricane?” 

The librarian shook her head. “No, I’m from Indiana.” 
Charlie felt her body relax. She wasn’t here. 

“Do you have any information on aé place called 
Fredbear’s Family Diner?” Charlie asked, and the woman 
frowned. 

“Do you mean Freddy Fazbear’s? They used to have one 
of those here, | think,” she said vaguely. 

“No, that’s not the one,” Charlie said, ready to be 
endlessly patient with the librarian, who was, thankfully, 
probably the only person in town who was somehow 
unaware of her history. 

“Well, for town records, things like incorporation and 
licensing, you would have to go to City Hall, but it’s—” She 
checked her watch. “It’s after five, so not today anyway. | 
have newspapers all the way back to the 1880s, if you want 
to look at microfilm,” she said eagerly. 

“Yeah, okay,” Charlie said. 

“I’m Harriet,” the woman said as she led them to a door 
at the back of the building. They recited their names 
dutifully, and she chattered on like a child about to display 
her favorite toy. 

“So you know what microfilm is, right? It’s because we 
can’t keep stacks and stacks of papers here. There’s no 
room, and eventually they would rot, so it’s a way to 
preserve them. They take pictures and save the film; it’s 


almost like a movie reel, you know? Very small. So you need 
a machine to see it.” 

“We know what it is,” John cut in when she paused. “We 
just don’t know how to use it.” 

“Well, that’s what I’m here for!” Harriet declared and 
threw the door open. Inside was a table with a computer 
monitor. The monitor sat on top of a little box with a small 
wheel on each side. Two handles stuck out in front. Charlie 
and John looked at it bemusedly, and Harriet grinned. 

“You want the local paper, right? What years?” 

“Um ...” Charlie counted backward. “1979 to 1982?” she 
hazarded. Harriet beamed and left the room. John bent 
forward to peer at the machine, rattling the handles a little. 
“Careful,” Charlie warned jokingly. “I think she might be lost 
without that thing.” John raised his hands to his shoulders 
and stepped back. 

Harriet reappeared with what looked like four small 
movie reels and held them up. 

“What year do you want to start with?” she said. “1979?” 

“I! guess,” Charlie said, and Harriet nodded. She went to 
the machine and threaded the film through expertly. She 
flipped a switch and the screen came to life; a newspaper 
appeared. 

“January 1, 1979,” John announced, leaning forward to 
read the headlines. “Politics, somebody won a sports game, 
and there was some weather. Also there was a bakery giving 
away free cookies to celebrate the New Year. Sounds like 
now, except no cookies.” 

“You use these to see more,” Harriet said, manipulating 
the controls. “Let me know if you need help switching the 
reels. Have fun, you two!” She winked conspiratorially and 
closed the door behind her as she left. 


Charlie positioned herself in front of the machine, and 
John stood behind her, his hand on her chair. It felt good to 
have him close, like he would stop anything that tried to 
sneak up on her. 

“This is pretty cool,” he remarked, and she nodded, 
scanning the paper for answers. 

“Okay, let’s narrow it down,” he said grimly. “What’s the 
thing most likely to make the papers?” 

“| was looking for an opening announcement,” Charlie 
Said. 

“Yeah, but what’s going to make the papers? Sorry,” he 
added. “I didn’t want to say it, but we have to.” 

“Sammy,” Charlie said. “We should have started with 
Sammy. We moved to the new house when | was three; it’s 
got to be 1982.” 

Carefully, they switched the reel. Charlie eyed the door 
as they did, as if nervous that Harriet might catch them 
making a mistake. 

“When’s your birthday?” John said, sitting to take her 
place. 

“Don’t you know?” she teased. He screwed up his face in 
an exaggerated mime of thinking. 

“May thirteenth,” he said at last. She laughed, startled. 

“How did you know?” 

He grinned up at her. “Because | know things,” he said. 

“But why does it matter?” 

“You remember being three when you moved, but you 
didn’t turn three until May, so we knock out five months. Do 
you remember anything about the restaurant the night 
Sammy disappeared?” 

Charlie felt herself flinch with an almost physical pain. 


“Sorry,” she said. Her face felt too hot. “Sorry, you 
startled me. Let me think.” She closed her eyes. 

The restaurant. The closet, hung full with costumes. She 
and Sammy, there safe in the dark, until the door opened, 
and the rabbit appeared, leaning over them with its awful 
face, its human eyes. Charlie’s heart was racing. She slowed 
her breathing and held out a hand; John took hold of it. She 
held on tight, as if he could anchor her. The rabbit leaning 
over them, the yellow teeth beneath the mask, and behind 
the rabbit ... what was behind the rabbit? The restaurant 
was open; she could hear voices, people. There were more 
people in costumes—other performers? Robots? No ... She 
almost had it. Scarcely breathing, Charlie tried to coax out 
the thought, scared to frighten it away. Move slowly; speak 
softly. She had it, snatched it from the depths of her mind 
and held it wriggling in her fingers. Her eyes snapped open. 

“John, | Know when it was,” she said. 

Earlier that night, when they were still wide awake, the 
closet opened, and her mother looked in. She was haloed by 
the light from behind her, smiling down at her twins, radiant 
in her long, elegant dress, her flowing hair, her gleaming 
tiara. Mommy's a princess, Charlie murmured sleepily, and 
her mother bent down and kissed her cheek. Just for 
tonight, she whispered, and then she left them in the dark 
to sleep. 

“She was a princess,” she said excitedly. 

“What? Who?” 

“My mother,” Charlie said. “She was dressed up as a 
princess. It was a Halloween party. John, go to November 
first.” 

John struggled briefly with the controls, and then it was 
there. The headline was small, but it was on the front page 


of the paper on Monday, November 1: TODDLER SNATCHED. 
Charlie turned away. John began to read aloud, and Charlie 
cut in, stopping him. 

“Don’t,” she said. “Just tell me if it has anything useful.” 

He was quiet, and she stared anxiously at the door, 
waiting, tracing the knots in the false wood with her eyes. 

“There’s a picture,” he said finally. “You need to look.” 

She leaned over his shoulder. The story had continued 
over an entire page inside, with pictures of the restaurant, 
of the family all together, and of her and of Sammy, though 
neither of the twins were named in the article. In the bottom 
left corner, there was a picture of her father and another 
man. Their arms were slung around each other’s shoulders, 
and they were grinning happily. 

“John,” Charlie said. 

“It says they were joint owners,” John said quietly. 

“No,” Charlie said, unable to take her eyes from the 
picture, from the face they both knew. 

Suddenly the door behind them erupted in pounding 
from outside, and they both jumped. 

“CHARLIE! JOHN! ARE YOU IN THERE?” 

“Marla,” they said as one, and Charlie rushed to the door 
and threw it open. 

“Marla, what is it?” 

She was red-faced and breathless, and Harriet was 
anxiously hovering behind her. Marla’s hair was wet; water 
dripped down her face, but she did not wipe it away or even 
seem to notice. / guess the rain started, Charlie thought, the 
mundane reflection drifting unbidden into her head despite 
her alarm. 

“He’s gone! Jason’s gone,” Marla cried. 


“What?” John said. 

“He’s gone back to Freddy’s; | know he has,” she said. 
“He kept saying we should go back, that we shouldn’t just 
be hanging around all day. | thought he was in another 
room, but | looked everywhere. | know that’s where he is!” 
She said it all in one breath and ended gasping, a faint, 
whining hum resonating under her breathing, a keening 
sound she seemed unable to stop making. 

“Oh no,” Charlie said. 

“Come on,” Marla pressed. She was jittering, vibrating; 
John put a hand on her shoulder as if to comfort her, and 
She shook her head. “Don’t try to calm me down, just come 
with me,” she insisted, but there was no anger, only 
desperation. She turned and almost ran to the door, and 
John and Charlie followed with an apologetic look for the 
bemused librarian they left behind them. 





Carlton opened his eyes, disoriented, his head stuffed tight 
with a massive, pulsing ache. He was half sitting, stiffly 
propped against a wall, and he found he could not move his 
arms. His body was covered in little, random places of sharp 
pain and tingling numbness; he tried to shift away from the 
discomfort, but he was restrained somehow, and the little 
moves he could make just made new places hurt. He looked 
around the room, trying to get his bearings. It looked like a 
storage room: There were boxes along the walls, and 
discarded cans of paint and other cleaning supplies littered 
the floor, but there was more. There were piles of furry 
fabric everywhere. Carlton peered at them sleepily. He felt 
muzzy, like if he closed his eyes he could just fall back 
asleep, so easily ... No. He shook his head hard, trying to 
clear it, and yelped. “Oh no,” he groaned as the throbbing in 


his head demanded attention and his stomach flipped. He 
clenched his jaw and closed his eyes, waiting for the 
pounding and nausea to recede. 

Eventually they did, fading back to something almost 
manageable, and he opened his eyes again, starting over. 
This time his mind had cleared a little, and he looked down 
at his body to see his restraints. Of no. 

He was wedged inside the heavy, barrel-shaped torso of 
a mascot costume, the headless top half of some kind of 
animal. His arms were trapped inside the torso section, 
pinned to his sides in an unnatural position by some sort of 
framework. The arms of the costume hung limp and empty 
from the sides. His legs stuck out incongruously from the 
bottom, looking small and thin in contrast. He could feel 
other things inside the mascot’s torso, pieces of metal that 
pressed against his back and poked into him. He could feel 
raw patches on his skin, and he could not tell if the thing he 
felt trickling down his back was sweat or blood. Something 
was pressing into the sides of his neck; when he turned his 
head, whatever it was dug into his skin. The costume’s fur 
was dirty and matted, a faded color that might once have 
been a bright blue but was now only a bluish approximation 
of beige. He could see a head of the same color a few feet 
away, sitting on a cardboard box, and with a flicker of 
curiosity he looked at it, but he could not tell what it was 
Supposed to be. It looked as if someone had been told 
“make an animal” and had done just that, careful not to 
make it look like any specific type of animal. 

He looked around the room, comprehension dawning. He 
knew where he was. The piles of fabric had faces. They were 
empty costumes, mascots from the restaurant, deflated, 


collapsed, and staring empty-eyed at him, like they wanted 
something. 

He looked around, trying to assess calmly, though his 
heart was fluttering alarmingly in his chest. The room was 
small, a single bulb overhead lighting it dimly and flickering 
ever so Slightly, giving the place a disquieting impression of 
movement. A small metal desk fan, brown with rust, gently 
oscillated in the corner, but the air it blew was heavy with 
the stale sweat of costumes left unwashed for a decade. 
Carlton was too hot; the air felt too thick. He tried to stand, 
but without his arms he could not brace himself, and as he 
moved he felt another violent wave of nausea, and a 
sudden, angry surge of pain in his head. 

“! wouldn’t do that,” a raspy voice muttered. Carlton 
looked around, seeing no one, then the door opened. It 
moved slowly, and somewhere beneath his terror Carlton 
felt a twinge of impatience. 

“Who is it? Let me out of this!” he said in panicked 
desperation. 

The door squealed like an injured animal as it glided 
open, almost of its own accord, the frame empty. After a 
moment’s pause, a yellow rabbit poked its head around the 
corner, its ears tilting at a jaunty angle. It was still for a 
moment, almost posing, then it came in with a bouncing 
walk, graceful, with none of the stiff, mechanistic 
movements of the animatronic animal. It did a small dance 
step, spun, and took a deep bow. Then it reached up and 
took off its own head, revealing the man inside the costume. 

“| guess | shouldn’t be surprised,” Carlton said, his 
nerves triggering an automatic wisecrack. “Never trust a 
rabbit, | say.” It didn’t make sense, it wasn’t funny, but the 
words were coming out of his mouth without any input from 


his brain. He still felt sick, his head still ached, but he had a 
sudden, visceral clarity: This is what happened to Michael. 
You are what happened to Michael. 

“Don’t speak,” Dave said. Carlton opened his mouth to 
answer back, but the smart remark died on his tongue when 
he saw the guard’s face. He had seemed somehow faded 
when they met, depleted and ineffectual. But now, as he 
stood over Carlton in his absurd-looking rabbit costume, he 
looked different. His face was the same, technically—his 
gaunt features and sunken eyes, his skin that seemed to 
have worn thin, ready to snap from strain—but now there 
was a mean, undeniable strength in him, a rodentine vitality 
that Carlton recognized. 

It had occurred to Carlton years before that there were 
two types of nasty people: There were the obvious ones, like 
his sixth-grade English teacher who yelled and threw 
erasers, or the kid in fifth grade who picked fights with 
smaller children after school. That type was easy, their 
offenses public, brutal, and undeniable. But then there was 
the other kind of petty tyrant, those who grew spiteful with 
their small scraps of power, feeling more and more abused 
by the year—by family who did not appreciate them, by 
neighbors who slighted them in imperceptible ways, by a 
world that left them, somehow, lacking something essential. 

Before him stood someone who had spent so much of his 
life fighting like a cornered rat that he had taken on the 
mantle of bitter sadism as an integral part of himself. He 
would strike out against others and revel in their pain, 
feeling righteously that the world owed him his cruel 
pleasures. The guard’s face, with its malevolent delight in 
Carlton’s pain and fear, was one of the most terrifying 


things he had ever seen. He opened and closed his mouth, 
then, valiantly, found his voice. 

“What kind of a name for a serial killer is Dave?” he said. 
It came out as a trembling croak, lacking even the echo of 
bravado. Dave did not seem to hear him. 

“| told you not to move, Carlton,” he said calmly. He set 
the rabbit’s head down on a plastic crate and began fiddling 
with the fastenings at the back of his neck. “It’s not an 
order, it’s a friendly warning. Do you know what I’ve put you 
in?” 

“Your girlfriend?” Carlton said, and Dave made a thin 
curve of a smile. 

“You're amusing,” he said with distaste. “But no. You’re 
not wearing a costume, Carlton, not precisely. You see, 
these suits were designed for two purposes: to be worn by 
men like me”—he gestured fluidly toward himself, with 
something that might have been pride—“and to be used as 
working animatronics like the ones you see on the stage. Do 
you understand?” 

Carlton nodded, or began to, but Dave’s raised eyebrow 
stopped him. 

“| said don’t move,” he said. The neck of his costume 
came open, and he began to undo a second fastening at his 
back as he talked. “You see, all of the animatronic parts in 
that suit are still in it; they are simply held back by spring 
locks, like this.” 

Dave went to the pile of costumes and selected one, 
bringing the fuzzy green torso, headless, over to Carlton. He 
held out the costume, waggling two twisted pieces of metal 
that were attached to the sides of the neck. 

“These are spring locks,” he said, bringing the piece of 
metal so close to Carlton’s face he almost could not focus 


his eyes on it. “Watch.” He did something, touched some 
piece of the lock so imperceptibly that Carlton could not see 
what he had done, and it snapped shut with a sound like a 
backfiring car. Carlton stiffened, suddenly taking the order 
not to move deathly seriously. 

“That’s a very old costume, one of the first ones Henry 
made. You can trip these spring locks very, very easily if you 
don’t know what you’re doing,” Dave went on. “It takes 
almost no movement at all.” 

“Henry?” Carlton said, trying to focus on what he was 
being told. He could still hear the snap, as if it had lodged in 
his head like a song that kept repeating. /’m going to die, he 
thought for the first time since waking. This man will kill me, 
/ will die, and then what? Will anyone even know? He set his 
jaw and met Dave’s eyes. “Who's Henry?” 

“Henry,” Dave repeated. “Your friend Charlie’s father.” 
He looked surprised. “Did you not know that he made this 
place?” 

“Oh, right, well,” Carlton said confusedly. “I just always 
thought of him as ‘Charlie’s dad.’ ” 

“Of course,” Dave said, the kind of polite murmur people 
made when they didn’t care. “Well, that’s one of his first 
Suits,” he said, gesturing at Carlton. “And if you trigger 
those spring locks, two things will happen: First, all the locks 
will snap right into you, making deep cuts all over your 
body, and a split second later all the animatronic parts 
they’ve been holding back, all that sharp steel and hard 
plastic, will instantly be driven into your body. You will die, 
but it will be slow. You’ll feel your organs punctured, the suit 
will grow wet with your blood, and you will Know you’re 
dying for long, long minutes. You'll try to scream, but you 
will be unable to. Your vocal cords will be severed, and your 


lungs will fill with your own blood until you drown in it.” 
There was a faraway look in his eyes, and Carlton knew with 
chilling certainty that Dave wasn’t predicting. He was 
reminiscing. 

“How—” Carlton’s voice broke, and he tried again. “How 
do you know that?” he said, managing a raspy whisper. 
Dave met his eyes and smiled widely. 

“How do you think?” He set down the costume he was 
holding and reached up to undo the final piece of his own. It 
took time; Carlton watched for several minutes as Dave 
romanced whatever mechanisms lay under the collar. He 
took the costume torso off with a flourish, and Carlton made 
an involuntary sound, a helpless and frightened mewil. 

Dave had been shirtless under the costume, and now his 
bare chest was clearly visible even in the dim, flickering 
light. His skin was horribly scarred, with raised white lines 
that scored his flesh in a symmetrical pattern, each side of 
his body mirroring the other. Dave saw him looking and 
laughed, a sudden, happy sound. Carlton shivered at it. 
Dave raised his arms out from his body and turned slowly in 
a circle, giving Carlton ample time to see that the scars 
were everywhere, covering his back like a faint lace shirt, 
stretching to the waist of the rabbit pants as if they 
continued all the way down. On the back of his neck, where 
they were largest and most visible, two scars like parallel 
lines were etched from the nape of his neck all the way up 
to his scalp, disappearing into his hair. Carlton tried to 
swallow. His mouth was so dry he could not have spoken, 
even if there had been anything to say. 

Dave smiled unpleasantly. 

“Don’t move,” he said again. 


* OK OX 


“He’s here; he has to be here!” Marla cried, staring 
despairingly at the door to Freddy’s. She was clasping and 
unclasping her hands, the knuckles going white. Charlie 
watched her helplessly. There was nothing to say. The door 
was no longer covered in chains; instead it was simply no 
longer a door. It had been welded over; the metal was 
melted seamlessly into the frame, and the hinges were 
gone, covered in crude, patchy solder. They all stared, not 
fully able to comprehend what they were looking at. Charlie 
shifted her feet. She had stepped in a puddle as they 
hurried from the car, and now her shoes and socks were 
soaked and freezing. It seemed unforgivable to be focused 
on her own discomfort in such a moment, but she could not 
stop her attention from drifting to it. 

“This is insane,” Marla said, her mouth agape. “Who does 
this?” She threw up her hands in frustration. “Who does 
something like that?” She was almost shouting. “Someone 
did that! Someone welded this shut. What if Jason is in 
there?” 

Marla put her hands over her face. Jessica and Lamar 
stepped forward to comfort her, but she waved them away. 

“I’m fine,” she said tightly, but she did not move, still 
staring at the place in the wall that had once been a door. 
She looked smaller, lesser; the panicked energy that had 
been driving her was gone, leaving her empty and without 
purpose. She looked at Charlie, ignoring the others, and 
Charlie met her eyes uncomfortably. 

“What do we do?” Marla asked. Charlie shook her head. 

“! don’t know, Marla,” she said uselessly. “If he’s in there, 
we have to get him out. There has to be a way.” 


“There has to be another way in,” John agreed, though 
he sounded surer than Charlie felt. “Freddy’s had windows, 
a service door, right? There must have been fire exits. There 
has to be something!” 

“Stop!” Marla cried, and they all froze in place. She was 
pointing at the floor. 

“What is it?” Charlie asked, coming up next to her. 

“It’s Jason’s footprint,” Marla said. “Look, you can see the 
imprint; it’s those silly shoes he spent a year’s allowance 
on.” 

Charlie looked. Marla was right; there was a muddy 
footprint about Jason’s size, still fresh. Marla’s face was alive 
again, fiery and determined. 

“He must have just been here,” Marla said. “Look, you 
can see the tracks turn and leave again. The door must 
have been already welded when he got here. He’s probably 
still here somewhere. Come on!” 

Jason’s tracks were heading farther down the alley, into 
the darkness, and the group crouched low to the ground, 
following his trail. Charlie hung back, not really helping but 
keeping an eye on the bobbing flashlight ahead. There was 
something she was forgetting, something she should know. 
Something about Freddy’s. Noticing that she was apart, John 
let the others move ahead. 

“You Okay?” he asked in a low voice, and Charlie shook 
her head. 

“I’m fine,” she said. “Go ahead.” He waited for her to say 
more, but she was staring ahead into the dark. Another way 
in. 

“Found it!” Jessica’s voice pierced the dark, and Charlie 
came back to herself and jogged to catch up to the others. 


Lamar had the flashlight again, and he was aiming it at an 
air vent close to the ground. 

The vent was old and rusty, and its covering lay flat on 
the ground amid scattered footprints and clumps of mud. 

“Jason, what are you doing?” Marla gasped and knelt 
beside the vent. “What are you thinking?” There was an 
edge to her voice, something teetering between panic and 
relief. “We have to go after him,” she said. 

Charlie watched, dubious, but said nothing. It was John 
who spoke up. 

“It’s too small,” he said. “I don’t think any of us will fit.” 

Marla looked down at herself, then around at the others 
one by one, calculating. 

“Jessica,” she said decisively. “Come on.” 

“What?” Jessica looked to the side as if there might be 
another of her. “I don’t think I’Il fit, Marla.” 

“You're the skinniest,” Marla said shortly. “Just try, okay?” 

Jessica nodded and went to the vent, kneeling in the 
muddy concrete that was the alley’s floor. She studied the 
hole in the wall for a moment and tried to squeeze in, but 
her shoulders barely cleared the space, and after a moment 
she pulled back out, out of breath. 

“Marla, | can’t fit, I’m sorry,” she said. 

“You can fit!” Marla said. “Please, Jessica.” 

Jessica looked back at the others, and when Charlie saw 
her face it was almost white, harshly expressionless. She’s 
claustrophobic, Charlie thought, but before she could speak, 
Jessica was back at the air vent, twisting herself, trying 
again to fit. 

“Please,” Marla said again, and Jessica shot back out like 
something had bitten her. 


“I can’t, Marla,” she said, her breathing shallow and fast, 
as if she had been running full-out. “I don’t fit!” 

“There has to be another way in.” Charlie stepped in, 
reaching her arm between Marla and Jessica as though 
breaking up a fight. 

Charlie closed her eyes, trying again to remember. She 
pictured the restaurant, trying to see it not as they had the 
last few days, but as it had been years before. The lights 
were bright; it was full of people. “It used to get hot, stuffy,” 
she said. “In summer it smelled like pizza and old french-fry 
grease and sweaty kids, and my dad would say ...” That’s it. 
“He would say, ‘Whose brilliant idea was it to put a skylight 
in a closet?’ ” she finished triumphantly, relieved. She could 
picture the little supply room with the open roof. She and 
Sammy would sneak away and sit in there for a few 
minutes, enjoying the small stream of fresh air that filtered 
down from outside. 

“So that’s it. Let’s get to the roof,” John said, breaking 
Charlie’s drift into memory. 

“What roof?” Marla said, studying the top of the closed 
hall. She was no longer in a full-blown panic, reassured by 
evidence that Jason was still alive, but her anxiety was still 
palpable. Her glance darted constantly around the little 
group, as if her little brother might suddenly appear from 
the shadows. 

“It’s been covered over, like everything else,” Lamar 
chimed in. 

“Maybe not,” Charlie said. “The roof of the mall is pretty 
high. | bet there’s a crawl space, at least.” 

“A crawl space?” John said excitedly. “You mean a crawl 
space between the roof of Freddy’s and the roof of the mall? 


Up there?” He stared up into the darkness for a moment. “A 
crawl space?” he repeated, his voice a little meeker. 

Charlie was busy studying the ceiling of the corridor, 
measuring it in her head against what they had seen of the 
outside of the building. It was different—she was sure of it. 

“This isn’t the roof to the mall. It’s not high enough,” she 
said, feeling a spark of encouragement. She set off briskly 
down the hall, not waiting for the others. They followed, 
trailing behind her, and the space above her suddenly 
became illuminated as Lamar caught up and cast the beam 
of the flashlight upward. Charlie was going back and forth, 
looking from wall to ceiling and back again while trying to 
picture the space outside. 

“The ceiling of this hall is probably level with the roof of 
Freddy’s.” Jessica’s voice came from behind Charlie, who 
startled briefly. She had been so intent on her pursuit she 
had lost track of her friends. 

“We have to get up there,” Charlie said, turning back to 
the group expectantly. They looked blankly at her for a 
second. Then Lamar’s arm moved reflexively, like he was 
about to raise his hand. He caught himself and cleared his 
throat instead. 

“| hate to point out the obvious, but,” Lamar said, 
gesturing. About ten feet ahead of them, a maintenance 
ladder rested against the old brick. Charlie grinned and 
hurried to the ladder, waving for John to follow. They 
grabbed it together; it was heavy, metal, and covered with 
Spatters of paint, but it was manageable to carry. When 
Charlie had a firm grip on one side of the ladder, she turned 
her face back to the ceiling, searching. 

“There is probably a hole, or a hatch, or something,” she 
said. 


“A hole, or a hatch, or something?” John echoed with a 
half smile as he lifted the other end of the ladder. 

“Do you have a better idea? Now come on.” She jerked 
the ladder forward so hard John stumbled and almost fell. 

They moved slowly. With only one flashlight, they could 
not see where they were going and examine the walls at the 
same time, so every few yards they stopped for Lamar to 
run the light back and forth across the place where the brick 
wall met the dripping ceiling of the makeshift hallway. 
Though it slowed them down, Charlie was grateful for the 
breaks; the ladder, industrial metal, was heavy. She could 
have asked the others to switch off, but it felt essential 
somehow that she be part of the physical process. She 
wanted to help. 

Marla’s agitation was growing as they went, and after a 
few rounds of move-and-scan she started calling Jason’s 
name softly. 

“Jason! Jason, can you hear me?” 

“He’s inside,” John said shortly. “He can’t hear you.” His 
voice was strained with the weight of the ladder—he had 
the wider end—and he sounded almost snappish. Marla 
glared at him. 

“You don’t know that.” 

“Marla, stop it,” Jessica said. “We’re doing everything we 
can.” 

Marla didn’t answer. A few minutes later, they came to 
the end of the alley. 

“So now what?” John said. 

“| don’t know,” Charlie said, puzzled. “I was positive that 
we would find something.” 

“Is that the way life usually works for you?” John teased, 
raising an eyebrow at her. 


From down the hall, Lamar let out a triumphant cry. 

“Found it!” 

Marla took off toward him at a run, and Jessica followed a 
little more cautiously behind, wary of obstacles in the dark. 

Charlie gave John a wink and picked up the ladder again. 
He hurried to lift his side, and they lugged it back the way 
they came. 

When Charlie and John caught up to the rest of the 
group, all three were looking up at the ceiling. Charlie 
mimicked their posture; sure enough, there was a square 
trapdoor, big enough for an adult to pass through, its edges 
barely visible in the darkness. Without speaking, they set up 
the ladder; it was perhaps ten feet high and rose close 
enough to the ceiling to access the door easily. Marla 
climbed up first as Lamar steadied the ladder on one side, 
Jessica on the other. 

John and Charlie watched as Marla ascended. 

“So the trapdoor there ...” John pointed up at it. “The 
trapdoor of this hallway is right next to Freddy’s. That will 
get us onto the roof of Freddy’s, which is under the roof of 
the mall, in a crawl space. And on Freddy’s roof, there’s a 
Skylight, which we will find while crawling through the crawl 
Space.” He drew an invisible diagram in the air with his 
finger as he spoke, and his tone was edged with skepticism. 
Charlie did not respond. Marla’s footsteps on the ladder 
sounded through the hall, heavy, tinny thuds that echoed 
unsteadily all around them. 

“Once we find the skylight in the crawl space,” John went 
on, not certain if Charlie was even listening, “we are going 
to drop down through the skylight and into Freddy’s, 
possibly with no way of getting back out.” 


At the top of the ladder, Marla fiddled with something on 
the ceiling that the others could not see, making little 
mutters of frustration. 

“Is it locked?” Charlie called up. 

“Okay, sure,” John said, aware by now that he was 
talking only to himself. “This makes sense.” 

“The bolt is just stuck,” Marla said. “| need—ha!” A dull 
Snapping sound rang out. “Got it!” she cried. She raised her 
hands over her head and pressed upward, and slowly the 
door opened above her until it tipped over and fell with a 
thud. 

“So much for sneaking in,” John said drily. 

“It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “We still have to go. 
Besides, do you really think whoever is in there doesn’t 
know we’re coming?” 

Above them, Marla was navigating her way up through 
the door. She braced her arms on either side of the space 
and pushed up off the ladder. It swayed dangerously, and 
Lamar and Jessica clutched it, trying to stabilize it, but it 
was not necessary. Marla was already up and through, on 
the roof. They waited for her to say something. 

“Marla?” Jessica called finally. 

“Yeah, I’m fine,” Marla said. 

“What do you see?” Charlie called. 

“Throw me the light.” Marla’s arm emerged from the 
trapdoor, flapping impatiently. Lamar got a bit closer and 
carefully lobbed the flashlight up. Marla snatched it out of 
the air, and immediately the beam vanished—the light had 
gone out. 

In the crawl space, Marla sat in the dark trying to fix the 
flashlight. She shook it, rattling the batteries, and flipped 
the switch on and off uselessly. As she unscrewed the top of 


the light and blew into the battery cage, she felt a rising 
panic. Since realizing Jason had gone, Marla’s entire being 
had been focused on him. It was only now, alone in the 
darkness, that she began to think about the danger she 
herself might be in. She screwed the top back onto the 
flashlight, and it came on instantly. The light flashed in her 
eyes, briefly clouding her vision. She pointed it away, then 
carefully swept it in a circle around her, revealing a 
sprawling void in all directions. It was the roof of Freddy 
Fazbear’s Pizza. 

“What do you see?” Charlie called again. 

“You were right: There’s space, but not much. It’s so 
dark, and it smells awful up here.” Her voice sounded shaky 
even to her own ears, and suddenly she was desperate not 
to be alone in this place. “Hurry, don’t leave me up here by 
myself!” 

“We're coming,” Jessica called up to her. 

“Me next,” Charlie said, stepping forward. The ladder was 
rusty, and it made squeaking complaints as she climbed, 
protesting her weight as she moved from step to step. But it 
felt sturdy, and quickly she reached the trapdoor and did as 
Marla had done. She stood on the top step so she was head 
and shoulders through the door, braced her arms on either 
side, and pushed off the ladder, almost jumping, to land on 
Freddy’s roof. There was not room to stand, scarcely room to 
sit—the space between the restaurant’s roof and the mall’s 
roof above it was less than a yard. Something was rattling 
above them, as if stones were falling overhead, and it took 
Charlie a moment to realize that it was the rain thundering 
on the uninsulated tin. Water dripped in on her head, and 
when she looked up she saw a place where the metal’s 
seams had not been joined, two corrugated sheets simply 


lined up next to each other, allied by circumstance. She 
wiped her palms on her jeans; the shingles of the roof were 
wet, and her hands were covered in grit, dust, and 
something slick and more unpleasant. 

She looked toward Marla, who was a few feet away. 

“Here, come on. Get out of their way,” Marla said, 
motioning her over, and Charlie hurried on her hands and 
knees. Jessica’s head appeared in the trapdoor, and 
carefully she made her way up into the crawl space. Safely 
on the roof, Jessica looked around as if gauging something. 
Concerned, Charlie remembered her fear in the air vent, but 
Jessica took a long, deep breath. 

“I! can handle this,” she said, though she did not sound as 
if she believed her own words. A moment later Lamar was 
next to them. He quickly reclaimed the flashlight and aimed 
it back toward the trapdoor. After a moment, John scrambled 
up into the crawl space—and something banged loudly 
beneath them, the sound repeating. Everyone but John 
startled at the sound. 

“Sorry,” he said. “That was the ladder.” 

“Charlie, which way?” Marla asked. 

“Oh.” Charlie closed her eyes again, retraced her steps 
as she had while they’d searched for a way in. “Straight 
across, | think,” she said. “As long as we get to the far side, 
we'll find it.” Without waiting for responses, she started 
crawling in the direction she thought was right. A second 
later, light appeared ahead of her. 

“Thanks,” she called back softly to Lamar, who was 
steadying the flashlight, trying to anticipate where Charlie 
would go. 

“| don’t have anything else to do,” he whispered. 


The crawl space was wide. It should have felt spacious, 
but there were support beams and pipes strewn at random, 
intersecting the space or running across the roof below 
them so that it was a little like navigating a very cramped 
forest, ducking vines and climbing over fallen trees. The roof 
of Freddy’s had a shallow upward slope; they would have to 
go down again once they reached the middle. The shingles 
beneath their hands and feet were soggy in a deep, swollen 
way that suggested they had not been truly dry in years, 
and a moldy smell rose from them. Every once in a while 
Charlie wiped her hands on her pants, Knowing they would 
only be clean for a moment. From time to time, she thought 
she heard something skitter by, sounds a little too far away 
to be coming from their group, but she ignored them. They 
have more right to be here than we do, she thought, though 
she was not certain what species “they” might be. 

The roof above them followed a bizarre pattern, sloping 
up and down without regard to the roof beneath, so that at 
One point it opened four feet above their heads, then at 
another plunged downward so close that it grazed their 
backs, forcing them to duck their heads and wriggle 
awkwardly through. Jessica was right behind Charlie, and 
from time to time she could hear her friend make soft, 
frightened noises, but every time she looked back, Jessica 
just nodded, stone-faced. They continued until they reached 
the wall that marked the edge of the roof. 

“Okay,” Charlie called, half turning behind her. “It should 
be near here. Let’s spread out and look.” 

“No, wait. What’s that?” Marla said, pointing. Charlie 
could not see what Marla had spotted, but she followed the 
direction until she came to it. 


The skylight was a flat glass pane in the roof framed like 
a small window, a single panel with no visible handles, 
hinges, or latches. They leaned over it, trying to see into the 
room below, but the glass was too covered in grime for 
anything to show through. John reached forward and tried to 
clean it with his sleeve. He came away with the arm of his 
Shirt black, but it had done no good—at least half the dirt 
was on the other side, and the skylight was still opaque with 
filth. 

“It’s just a closet; it’s okay,” Charlie said. 

“But is anyone /n the closet?” Lamar said. 

“It doesn’t matter,” said Marla. “We don’t have a choice.” 

Everyone looked at Charlie, who thoughtfully studied the 
Skylight. 

“It swings in,” she said. “You pull down on this side”—she 
pointed—“and it swings. There’s a latch on the inside, right 
there.” She touched the side of the skylight, thinking. 
“Maybe if we—” She pushed on it, and it gave way almost 
instantly, jolting her with a sudden, panicked sense of 
falling, even though her weight was solidly on the roof. 

“That’s kind of narrow,” John said. The skylight did not 
open all the way; the glass just tilted inward a little, barely 
enough for a person to slip through. 

“Il didn’t build it,” Charlie said, slightly irritated. “This is 
it, so if you’re going, go.” 

Without waiting for a response, she swung her legs over 
the sill and lowered herself down, dangling for a moment in 
the dark. Closing her eyes and hoping the floor was not as 
far away as she remembered, she let go and fell. 

She landed. The shock of impact ran through her legs, 
but it passed quickly. 


“Bend your knees when you land!” she called up as she 
got out of the way. Marla dropped through, and Charlie went 
to the door, trying to find a light switch. Her fingers 
stumbled across the switch, and she flipped it up. The old 
fluorescent lights clicked and buzzed, and then slowly a dim 
and unreliable glow filled the space. 

“All right,” she whispered with a thrill of excitement. She 
turned around, and as something brushed her face, she had 
a fleeting impression of big plastic eyes and broken yellow 
teeth. She screamed and leaped back, clutching for balance 
at shelves that swayed as she grabbed them. The head she 
had touched, an uncovered wire frame for a costume with 
nothing but eyes and teeth to decorate it, wobbled 
precariously on the shelf beside Charlie, then fell to the 
ground. Her heart still pounding, Charlie brushed at herself 
roughly as if she were covered in spiderwebs, her legs 
unsteady as she moved back and forth with agitation. The 
head rolled across the floor, then came to rest at her feet, 
looking up at her with its cheerful, sinister smile. 

Charlie jerked back from the ghastly grin, and something 
grabbed her from behind. She tried to yank free, but she 
was stuck, a pair of metal arms wrapped around her. The 
bodiless limbs clung to her shirt, their hinges biting into the 
cloth, and as she tried to wrest herself away her hair was 
caught, too, tangling her deeper into the wire until she felt 
like she would be consumed. Charlie screamed again, and 
the arms reached out farther, seeming to grow as she 
struggled against them. She fought back with all her 
strength, fueled by terror and a base, frantic fury that this 
thing would hurt her. 

“Charlie, stop!” Marla cried. “Charlie!” 


Marla grabbed her arm, trying to stop her frantic 
movement, using one hand to disengage Charlie’s hair from 
the metal frame. 

“Charlie, it’s not real, it’s just ... robot parts,” she said, 
but Charlie pulled away from Marla, still in a panic, and 
smacked her head into a cardboard box. She cried out, 
startled, as the box overturned. Eyes the size of fists fell to 
the ground like rain, showering down with a clatter and 
rolling everywhere, covering the floor. Charlie stumbled and 
stepped on one of the hard plastic orbs, sending her feet out 
from under her. She grabbed at a shelf, missed, and fell on 
her back, landing with a thud that took the wind out of her. 

Stunned and gasping, she looked up. There were eyes 
everywhere, not just on the floor, but in the walls. They 
looked out at her from the dark, deep-socketed, shadowed 
eyes peering down from the shelves all around her. She 
stared, unable to look away. 

“Charlie, come on.” Marla was there, kneeling anxiously 
over her. She grabbed Charlie’s arm again and pulled until 
Charlie was upright. Charlie still did not have her breath 
back, and as she inhaled thinly, she began to cry. Marla 
hugged her tightly, and Charlie let her. 

“It’s okay, it’s okay,” Marla whispered as Charlie tried to 
calm herself, looking around the storeroom for distraction. 

It’s not real, she told herself. They were in a storeroom, 
just a closet, and these were all spare parts. The air was 
thick with dust, and it tickled at her nose and throat as it 
poured off the shelves restlessly. The rest of the group 
dropped through the skylight one by one; John came last, 
landing in the middle of the room with a thump. Jessica 
sneezed. 

“You okay?” John said as soon as he saw Charlie. 


“Yeah, I’m fine.” Charlie disentangled herself from Marla 
and crossed her arms, still collecting herself. 

“You know we can’t get back up through there,” John 
said, looking up at the skylight. 

“We just need something to stand on,” Charlie said. “Or 
we can climb a shelf.” 

Jessica shook her head. 

“No, look at the way it’s opened.” 

Charlie looked. The skylight opened downward, so the 
pane of glass sloped in at a gentle angle, just enough to 
have let them through. To get out, they would have to— 

“Oh,” she said. There would be no getting out. However 
close they got to the skylight, the pane of glass would 
always be in the way, sticking out into the precise space 
they needed to pass through. If anyone tried to get a grip on 
the roof, they would have to lean so far over the glass that 
they would fall from the ladder. 

“We might be able to break the glass,” John started. “But 
the metal frame is going to be dangerous to climb over, 
even more dangerous with shards of broken glass.” He fell 
silent and thought it through again, his face grim. 

“It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “We'll find another way 
out. Let’s start looking.” 

They peered cautiously out into the hallway. Lamar had 
turned off the flashlight, but it was easy enough to see their 
surroundings now with the light from the closet seeping into 
the hall. At /east nothing’s dripping from the ceiling, Charlie 
thought, wiping her hands on her pants again. The floor was 
black-and-white tile, as glossy as if it had just been polished. 
There were children’s drawings on the walls, rustling with 
the air from the open skylight. Charlie remained motionless, 
more than aware of how much noise she had just made. 


Does it know we’re here? she wondered, realizing as she did 
that by “it” she meant the building itself. It felt as if Freddy’s 
was conscious of their presence, as if it reacted to them like 
a living, breathing thing. She reached out to brush her 
fingers against its wall, tracing lightly as if she were petting 
it. The plaster was still and cold, inanimate, and Charlie 
pulled her hand back. She wondered what Freddy’s would 
do. 

They wound around one corner, then another, and then 
stopped at the entrance to Pirate’s Cove, hanging back from 
the doorway. Pirate’s Cove. | have my bearings again. 
Charlie gazed at the little stage, no longer lit, and the 
curtain that hid its sole performer. 

A few small lights flickered on the sides of the stage then 
came on, illuminating the space with a pale-gray glow. 
Charlie looked around and saw Lamar standing by the 
doorway with his hand on a switch. 

“We don’t have a choice,” he said defensively, gesturing 
to his flashlight; its light was failing. Charlie nodded 
resignedly, and Lamar switched off the dying flashlight. 

“Il want to take a look in this control room,” Marla said, 
pointing to the small door nearby. “Lamar, come with me. 
The rest of you try the other one. If we each take one set of 
cameras, we can see the whole restaurant. If Jason’s in this 
place, we’ll see him.” 

“| don’t think we should split up,” Charlie said. 

“Wait,” said Lamar. He passed John the dead light, 
freeing his hands. From his pockets he produced two walkie- 
talkies; they were large, black, boxy things Charlie had only 
seen attached to police officers’ belts. 

“Where did you get those?” she asked. 


Lamar smiled mysteriously. “I’m afraid | can’t tell you 
that,” he said. 

“He stole them from Carlton’s house,” Jessica stated 
plainly, taking one from his hand and examining it. 

“No, they were in the garage. Mrs. Burke told me where 
to find them. They work, | tested.” 

Mrs. Burke knew we would come here? Charlie thought. 
Marla just nodded; maybe she had already known, or maybe 
nothing could surprise her anymore. 

“Come on,” Marla said and walked between the tables in 
front of Pirate’s Cove, careful not to disturb anything. Lamar 
leaned over Jessica to show her how to use the walkie-talkie. 

“It’s this button,” he said, indicating it, and then he took 
off after Marla. 

After a startled moment, the rest of them followed. 
Something clutched in Charlie’s stomach, the reality that 
both Jason and Carlton might truly be in danger seizing her. 
It was not that she had forgotten, but while they were 
outside, trying to solve the puzzles, it was possible to gain 
some distance from what was happening. She watched 
Marla stalking toward the control room with a_ bleak 
authority. Marla crouched at the small door before turning to 
Charlie. 

“Go,” she said, nodding toward the hall that led to the 
main dining area. They went, Charlie taking the lead as they 
crept down the hall, heading for the main stage. 


* *K X* 
Marla looked at Lamar, who nodded. She grasped the 


doorknob, clenched her teeth, and forced the door open all 
in one motion. 


“Marla!” 

Marla jumped, barely suppressing a scream. Jason was 
huddled in the space beneath the monitors, his eyes wide 
and terrified, staring at the door like a frightened mouse. 

“Jason!” Marla crawled into the control room and 
swooped him into her arms. Jason hugged her back, for once 
grateful, even desperate, for her intense affection. She held 
on tight, crushing him to her until he began to worry that he 
might, in fact, be crushed. 

From outside Marla’s consuming embrace, Jason heard 
brief static. He looked over Marla’s shoulder to see Lamar 
studying the walkie-talkie, preparing to speak into it. 

“Jessica? We found him. He’s okay,” he said. 

More static and words Jason did not quite catch came 
from the radio. The first wave of relief had worn off, and his 
ribs were starting to hurt. 

“Marla?” He tapped her on the shoulder, first gently, then 
harder. “Marla!” 

She let him go but took hold of his shoulders for a 
moment, peering into his eyes as if to be sure it was really 
him, that he had not been somehow replaced, or irrevocably 
damaged. 

“Marla, cool it,” he said as casually as he could, 
managing to keep his voice from shaking. Marla let go of his 
Shoulders, giving him a playful shove, and began to scold 
him as she pulled him the rest of the way out from under 
the control panel. 

“Jason, how could you—” Marla was interrupted as Lamar 
descended the rest of the way into the small room. 

“Through the vent? Really?” Lamar laughed. 

“You could have been killed, crawling through the air 
duct like that!” Marla added, grasping his shoulders. 


Jason fought free, flailing his arms until she let him go. 

“Okay!” he exclaimed. “Everybody missed me, good, 
glad to know I’m important.” 

“You are important,” Marla said fiercely, and Jason rolled 
his eyes theatrically. 

The little room lit up as Lamar flipped a switch, bringing 
the screens to life. Marla looked at Jason thoughtfully, then 
turned her attention to the security cameras. “Okay, let’s 
see what we can see.” 

Lamar looked from screen to screen. The top middle 
screen showed the main dining room and the stage, and as 
they watched, Charlie, Jessica, and John appeared, crossing 
the room in a V formation, Charlie at the front. 

“Look,” Marla said suddenly, pointing to the screen at the 
lower right. “Look.” 

The night guard was there; though they could not make 
out his face, his baggy uniform and sagging shoulders told 
them that it was the same man. He was in the hall near the 
restaurant’s entrance, walking past the party rooms and the 
arcade with a slow, purposeful gait. 

“Lamar, warn them,” Marla ordered urgently. 

Lamar spoke into the walkie-talkie. “Jessica, the guard is 
somewhere around there. Hide!” 

There was no response from the radio, but onscreen the 
group of three froze. Then, as one, they made for the control 
room under the stage, squeezing in and closing themselves 
in just as the guard appeared in the doorway. 


* OK OX 


Voices. People moving around. 


Carlton did not allow himself to sigh in relief—a rescue 
wouldn’t do him any good if he got his insides punctured by 
a hundred tiny robot parts first. Instead he continued with 
what he had been doing, inching his way across the floor 
and into the view of the security camera that perched near 
the ceiling just above the door. Each movement was so 
scarce it felt like nothing, but he had been doing this for 
over an hour, and he was almost, a/most there. He kept his 
breathing steady, using his trapped hands to lift his body a 
tiny bit, move to the side, and let himself down again, just a 
little farther to the right. His fingers were cramping and his 
head still ached, but he kept going, relentless. 

Although he was still afraid, still painfully aware of how 
easily he could trigger his own death, at some point the fear 
had dulled, or perhaps he had just become accustomed to 
it. Panic could not last forever; eventually the adrenaline 
had run out. Now, at least, the need for slow, precise 
movement took precedence over everything else. It was all 
there was. Carlton made one final movement and stopped, 
closing his eyes for a moment. He had made it. 

Can't stop now. 

The others were here. It had to be them, and if they were 
looking for him, they would check the cameras. He stared 
up into the lens, willing himself to be seen. He could not 
wave or jump up and down. He tried rocking back and forth 
a little, but no matter how stiffly he held himself, he felt the 
press of spring locks, ready to give. He bit his lip in 
frustration. 

“Just see me!” he whispered to no one, but all at once he 
felt as if he had been heard, felt the inexplicable sense of 
someone else’s presence in the room. His heart began to 


race again, the adrenaline that had given out finding its 
second wind. 

Carefully, slowly, he looked around, until something 
caught his eye. 

It was only one of the costumes, slumped empty in the 
Shadows, half-hidden in the corner of the room. It was 
motionless, but its face was pointed directly at him, staring. 
As Carlton looked back, he realized that deep within the 
recesses of the costume’s eye sockets were two tiny glints 
of light. He felt little muscles twitch, a restrained shudder 
running through his body, not quite enough to get him 
killed. He did not look away. 

As Carlton held the creature’s gaze, he felt himself begin 
to calm. His heart’s pounding eased, and his breath grew 
even. It was as though suddenly he was safe, though he 
knew the suit he was wearing was still only one flinch, one 
startled jump, from killing him. Carlton kept looking at those 
two pinpoints of light, and as he did, he heard a voice. In a 
gasping instant, all the air was sucked from his lungs. As the 
voice spoke, that voice he would have known anywhere, 
that voice he would have given anything to hear again, 
Carlton began to weep, using all his will to keep his body 
from shaking. The eyes in the dark were intent on his face 
as the voice went on, speaking secrets to Carlton in the 
ringing silence, telling him things that he dreaded, things 
that someone had to hear. 





The screens all lost their pictures and flipped to static. 

“Hey!” Marla cried. She banged against the side of a 
monitor, and the image lurched, distorted, then sputtered 
and went out again. She hit it again, and with another 
spasm of static the image slowly cleared; as it resolved, the 
stage appeared. 

“Something’s wrong,” Lamar said, and all three leaned 
forward, trying to get a better look. 

“Bonnie,” Jason said in a grave tone. 

“Bonnie,” Marla echoed, looking at Lamar with alarm. 
“Where’s Bonnie?” Lamar hit the button on the walkie- 
talkie. 

“Charlie,” he said urgently. “Charlie, don’t leave the 
control room.” 


* OK OX 


In the control room under the stage, Charlie and Jessica 
peered at the monitors, scanning for signs of life. “It’s too 
dark; | can’t see anything on these,” Jessica complained. 

“There!” Charlie said, pointing. Jessica blinked. 

“| can’t see anything,” she insisted. 

“It’s Carlton, right there. I’m going to get him.” Not 
waiting for a response, Charlie crawled toward the exit. 

“Charlie, wait,” John said, but she was already out the 
door. It slammed shut behind her, and all three of them 
heard the dull metal thud of the drop lock falling into place. 
“Charlie!” John yelled again, but she was already gone. 

“It’s bolted shut,” John grunted as he pulled on the door. 
The walkie-talkie sputtered, and Lamar’s voice came 
choppily from the little box. 

“Ch-lie, don’t leave—r-m.” Jessica and John exchanged a 
glance, and John picked up the radio. 

“Too late,” he said, looking to Jessica as he lowered the 
walkie-talkie. 


* OK OX 


Charlie made her way unsteadily between chairs, but after 
only moments she realized she had gotten herself turned 
around. The lighting had changed; now a single blinding 
blue light was strobing on and off above the stage. Over and 
over, the room flashed with a blinding burst, like lightning, 
then was instantly dark again. Charlie covered her eyes, 
trying to remember what she had bumped into first. Metal 
chairs and foil party hats pulsed like beacons in the dark 
with each burst of light, and Charlie’s head began to throb. 


She squinted, trying to orient herself, but beyond the 
tables surrounding her, all she could see were a thousand 
afterimages burned into her retinas. She had no idea which 
way to go to find Carlton. She leaned against a nearby chair 
and pressed her hand tightly over her forehead. 

A table screeched against the floor briefly, and Charlie 
knew that it hadn’t been her. She turned around, but the 
light had gone dark. When it flashed again she was looking 
directly at the stage—where there should have been three 
sets of eyes, she saw only two. Freddy and Chica stared 
down at her, their plastic gazes catching the light, twinkling 
with the strobe. Their heads seemed to follow her as she 
moved along the table. 

Bonnie was gone. 

Suddenly she felt exposed, all at once noticing just how 
many places there were in the open room for something to 
hide, just how visible she was to anyone—anything—that 
might be watching. She thought briefly of the little control 
room she had just left and felt a pang of regret. Coming out 
here might have been very stupid ... 

Another screech sounded, and she whirled around to see 
the table behind her moving slowly away. She turned to run, 
but she slammed into something before she could take a 
step. She jerked up her hands in the darkness to shield 
herself and touched matted fur. The strobe threw its light 
out again, and this time garbled noise blared from the 
gaping mouth in front of her. Bonnie. Bonnie stood only 
inches from her, his mouth opening and closing rapidly and 
his eyes rolling wildly in his head. Charlie jerked away, then 
backed up slowly. The rabbit did not try to follow, just 
continued his bizarre and silent incantation, his eyes 
aimlessly ricocheting in his head. Her foot caught on the leg 


of a metal folding chair; she fell back, landing hard on her 
bottom. She started to crawl, staying low, hurrying to get 
away from Bonnie. A spotlight flashed from the stage, this 
one clearly aimed at her. She raised her hand to see who 
was there, but the light blinded her. All she could make out 
were two sets of following eyes. 

Charlie screamed and scrambled to her feet. She took off 
running, not looking back, and made it across the room and 
to the hallway that led to Pirate’s Cove. She ducked into the 
bathroom along its wall. The door echoed when it shut 
behind her; the room was empty, with nothing but three 
sinks and three stalls. Only one of the fluorescent lights was 
on, and just barely, only enough to color the room dark gray 
instead of black. The metal walls of the stall dividers looked 
flimsy, and Charlie had a sudden vision of Bonnie, larger 
than life, grabbing the metal frame with his paws and 
ripping it up from the ground, the bolts tearing right out of 
the floor. She banished the thought and ran into the farthest 
stall from the door, slipping the lock—so small it looked 
almost delicate—into place. She sat on top of the toilet tank, 
her feet pulled up onto the seat and her back pressed 
against the blue tile wall of the bathroom. In the empty 
room, Charlie could hear her own breath echoing. She 
forced it to slow and closed her eyes, telling herself to be 
silent, to hide. 


* OK OX 


“Charlie?” John was still pounding on the little door of the 
control room. “Charlie! What’s going on out there?” 

Jessica sat quietly, still rattled from the screams and 
crashes outside. 


“She can take care of herself,” John said, easing his grip 
on the door. 

“Yeah,” Jessica said. He did not turn around to look at 
her. 

“We have to get out of here,” John said. He rattled the 
door again—the top swayed a little as he pulled, but the 
bottom was stuck fast. He hunched down farther. There was 
a lock, a deadbolt that dropped straight into the floor. The 
latch to pull it open had broken off long ago, leaving only a 
jagged ledge so thin he could scarcely get his fingers 
around it. As he yanked it upward, it cut into his fingers, 
leaving thin red lines. The bolt stayed fast in place. 

“Jessica, you try,” he said, turning to look at her. Her 
eyes were on the wall of televisions; they were all showing 
static, but every now and then one flashed a picture. “Never 
mind,” John said. “Keep watching.” He bent his head again 
and went back to the deadbolt. 


* K OX 


In the bathroom, Charlie was silent. She paid attention to 
each breath she took, each inhale and exhale a slow, 
deliberate process. She had tried meditating once; she had 
hated it, but now the intense focus on her breathing was 
calming. / guess | just needed the right motivation, she 
thought. Like staying alive. The stalls rattled briefly, and 
there was a distant booming sound that went on for several 
seconds. /t’s storming outside. 

She kept her eyes trained on the floor. The light overhead 
was so dim it scarcely illuminated her stall. She held her 
breath. The light flickered and let out a brief hum, then was 
silent. The toilet tank she sat on felt unstable; she scooted 


to the edge of it to quietly let her foot down. Just as the tip 
of her shoe touched the tile, the wide bathroom doors 
opened with a thunderous bang. 

Without thinking she jerked her foot up, and the lid of the 
porcelain tank clanged like pots clattering together. She 
held herself perfectly still, her shoe suspended in the air, 
then carefully pulled her foot back into place on top of the 
toilet seat. That was too loud, she thought. Carefully, she 
leaned forward and reached up with one hand to grasp the 
Stall divider. She pulled herself up to stand slowly, the toilet 
seat rocking on its hinges beneath her feet. 

She peered out over the top at the two stalls next to her. 
It was too dark to see beyond the metal stalls, and the 
whole row of them swayed gently from her weight. 

There was a shuffling sound; something wide and heavy 
was Sliding across the floor, not trying nearly as hard as she 
was to be quiet. Her eyes darted from the stall door beside 
her to the bathroom door. The shuffling continued, but she 
could not tell where it was coming from; the sound filled the 
room. 

Suddenly the nebulous sound resolved: It was crisp, and 
it was nearby. The wall she clung to trembled slightly. She 
panned her gaze around the room, hoping her eyes would 
adjust a little more. She could make out a trash can by the 
door and the outline of the sinks. Apprehensively, she 
looked back at the door of her stall, letting her focus creep 
along the edges until she set her eyes on the inch-wide gap 
along the door. A large plastic eye stared back, unblinking 
and dry, fixed directly on her. Two large and unnatural rabbit 
ears hung over the top of the door. 

Charlie clasped her hand over her mouth and jumped to 
the floor as fast as she could, dropping to her stomach and 


scooting along the floor into the second stall. She heard 
Bonnie rattle the door of the stall she had just left, but the 
shuffling feet did not move. She crawled under the next 
divider and into the stall nearest the entrance. This time her 
foot bumped the toilet behind her, and the lip dropped down 
with a loud clank. 

Charlie froze. The shuffling thing did not move. For what 
felt like an age, Charlie held her breath. He heard, he must 
have heard! But Bonnie still made no sound. Charlie held 
still and listened, waiting for another sound of movement to 
mask her own. Her breathing seemed louder than before. 
She lowered her head, trying to make out shapes along the 
floor. 

The shuffling sound resumed, and now, without warning, 
it was directly in front of her. She held her breath, 
desperately trying to make out any forms in the darkness. 
There he is. A large, padded foot was just outside the door, 
as if it had stopped midstep. /s he leaving? Please leave, 
Charlie pleaded. There was a new sound: stiff fabric, softly 
crunching. What is that? The foot outside the door had not 
moved. The noise grew louder, the sound of fabric and fur 
twisting and stretching, tearing and popping. What is that? 
Charlie dug into the floor with her nails, holding down a 
guttural scream. He’s bending over. A large paw touched 
down gently in front of her, then another shape: the 
creature’s head. It was massive, filling the space under the 
door. Gracefully, Bonnie lowered himself to the floor and 
turned his head sideways until his eye met Charlie’s. His 
giant mouth was open wide with a ghoulish excitement, as 
though he had found someone in a game of hide-and-seek. 

A warm burst of air rolled in under the stall door. Breath? 
Charlie clasped her hand over her nose and mouth; the 


stench was unbearable. Another wave of it hit her face, 
hotter and more putrid. She closed her eyes, on the point of 
relinquishing the hope of escape. Maybe if she kept her eyes 
closed long enough, she would wake up. Another gust of hot 
air hit, and she jerked back, hitting the back of her head on 
the toilet. She recoiled with pain and threw her arm in front 
of her, shielding her face against attack. No attack came. 
She opened one eye. Where is he? 

Suddenly the metal walls around her swayed with a 
resounding bang. Charlie startled and covered her head as 
Bonnie struck again. The stalls rocked on their legs, and the 
bolts screeched as they were yanked free from the floor, the 
whole assembly seeming ready to collapse. Charlie 
scrambled under the last divider and climbed to her feet, 
grasping for the door handle to pull it shut as she ran out. 

She ran back into the main dining area, darting toward 
the control room. Her eyes no longer adjusted to the light, 
she ran with her hands in front of her, unable to see farther 
than her next steps. 

“John!” she cried, grabbing the doorknob and yanking at 
it, pushing. Nothing happened. 

“Charlie, it’s stuck!” John shouted back from inside. As 
Charlie struggled with the door, she glanced up at the 
stage. 

Chica was gone. 

“John!” Charlie shouted in desperation. Without waiting 
for a response, Charlie took off again, running for a hall to 
her left, trying to get as much distance from the bathroom 
as possible. 

The hall was almost completely dark, and as she ran, 
open doorways yawned at her with wide black mouths. 
Charlie did not stop to look inside any of them, instead only 


praying that nothing jumped out at her. She reached the last 
door and paused for a brief moment, hoping against hope 
that it would be unlocked. She grabbed the knob and 
twisted. Thankfully, it fell open easily. 

She slid through the door, then closed it rapidly, trying 
not to make a sound. She stood watching the door for a long 
moment, half expecting it to be flung open, and then finally 
she turned. It was only then that she saw him: Carlton was 
there. His eyes widened in surprise when he saw her, but he 
did not move, and after her eyes adjusted to the dim light 
she understood. He was trapped, wedged somehow into the 
top half of one of the animatronic suits, his head poking out 
from the wide shoulders of the costume. His face was white 
and exhausted, and Charlie knew why. The spring locks. She 
heard her father’s voice for a moment. /t could snap off your 
nose! 

“Carlton?” Charlie said cautiously, as if her voice alone 
might set off the mechanisms. 

“Yup,” he said, with the same faltering tone. 

“That costume is going to kill you if you move.” 

“Thanks,” he wheezed, half attempting a laugh. Charlie 
forced a smile. 

“Well, today is your lucky day. I’m probably the only 
person who knows how to get you out of that thing alive.” 

Carlton exhaled a long and shaky breath. “Lucky me,” he 
said. 

Charlie knelt at his side, studying the costume for long 
moments without touching it. “These two spring locks at the 
neck aren’t holding anything back,” she said at last. “He just 
rigged them to snap and pierce your throat if you try to 
move. | have to undo those first, and then we can open the 


back of the costume and get you out. But you can’t move, 
Carlton, seriously.” 

“Yeah, serial killer man explained the not moving to me,” 
he said. Charlie nodded and went back to looking at the 
costume, trying to devise an approach. 

“Do you know who I’m wearing?” Carlton asked, almost 
Casually. 

“What?” 

“The costume, do you know what character it was 
Supposed to be?” Charlie studied it, then looked around until 
she saw the matching head. 

“No,” she said. “Not everything he built made it to the 
stage.” Her fingers suddenly stopped working. “Carlton.” 
Charlie carefully surveyed the array of costumes and parts 
that lined the walls in varying stages of completion. 
“Carlton,” she repeated. “Is he in here?” 

With a new sense of dread, Carlton struggled to get a 
look behind him without moving. “I don’t know,” he 
whispered. “I don’t think so, but I’ve been kind of in and 
out.” 

“Okay, stop talking. I'll try to work fast,” Charlie said. She 
had the mechanism figured out, or at least she thought she 
did. 

“Not too fast,” Carlton reminded her. 

Carefully, slowly, she reached into the costume’s neck 
and took hold of the first spring lock, maneuvering it until 
her fingers were wedged between the lock and Carlton’s 
neck. 

“Careful with that artery; I’ve had it since | was a kid,” 
Carlton said. 

“Shh,” Charlie whispered. When Carlton spoke, she could 
feel his neck move; he was not going to set off the locks by 


talking, she thought, but the feeling of his tendons moving 
under her hands was unsettling. 

“Okay,” he whispered. “Sorry. | talk when I’m nervous.” 
He clamped down his jaw and bit his lips together. Charlie 
reached down farther into the costume’s neck and found the 
trigger. With a stinging snap, the lock sprang against her 
hand, so hard that it numbed her fingers. One down, she 
thought as she pulled it, harmless, out of the neck of the 
costume. She flexed her fingers until the feeling came back 
into them, then crawled over to Carlton’s other side and 
began the process again. She looked over her shoulder from 
time to time, making sure every costume was still in its 
place against the wall. 

His skin was warm under her touch, and even though he 
was not speaking, she could still feel movement, feel the life 
in him. She could feel his pulse against the back of her wrist 
as she worked, and she blinked back unexpected tears. She 
swallowed hard and focused on the task, trying to ignore the 
fact that she was touching someone who would die if she 
failed him. 

She worked open the spring lock again, taking the impact 
on the palm of her hand and pulling the disabled device free 
of the costume. Carlton took a deep breath in, and she 
Startled. 

“Carlton, don’t relax!” 

He stiffened and exhaled slowly, his eyes wide and 
frightened. 

“Right,” he said. “Still a death trap.” 

“Stop talking,” Charlie pleaded again. She knew exactly 
how much danger he was still in, and she could not bear to 
hear him speak now, if he was about to die. “Okay,” she 
said. “Almost there.” She crawled around behind him, where 


a series of ten leather and metal fasteners held the back of 
the costume together. She considered it for a moment. She 
needed to keep the costume still, exactly as it was, until the 
last moment. She sat down behind him and bent her knees, 
positioning herself so that she could hold the costume in 
place with her legs as she opened it. 

“| didn’t know you cared,” Carlton muttered as though 
attempting to put a joke together but too tired and too 
scared to finish it. Charlie didn’t answer. 

One by one, she worked the fasteners free. The leather 
was stiff, the metal tightly fitted, and each one fought back 
as she worked, clinging together. When she was halfway up 
the back of the costume, she felt its weight begin to shift. 
She gripped it tighter with her knees, holding it together. 
Finally, she undid the last one, at the nape of his neck. She 
took a deep breath. This was it. 

“Okay, Carlton,” she said. “We’re almost done. I’m going 
to open this and throw it forward. When | do, you pull out of 
it as fast as you can, okay? One... two... three!” 

She yanked the costume open and thrust it away with all 
her strength, and Carlton jerked back from it, toppling 
roughly into her. Charlie felt a sharp, quick pain on the back 
of her hand as she pulled free, but the costume skittered 
halfway across the room, leaving them clear. A series of 
Snaps sounded, making a noise like fireworks, and they both 
cried out, leaping back and banging into a heavy metal 
Shelf. Together they watched as the empty costume writhed 
and twisted across the floor, the animatronic parts snapping 
violently into place. When it came to a stop, Charlie stared, 
fixated. The thing was just a torso, just an object. 

Beside her, Carlton let out a low, pained groan, then 
turned and vomited onto the floor beside him, heaving and 


retching like he would be turned inside out. Charlie watched, 
unsure what to do. She put a hand on his shoulder and kept 
it there as he finished, wiped his mouth, and sat gasping for 
breath. 

“Are you Okay?” she said, the words sounding small and 
ridiculous. 

Carlton nodded wearily, then winced. “Yeah, I’m fine,” he 
said. “Sorry about the floor. | guess it’s your floor, kind of.” 

“You might have a concussion,” Charlie said, alarmed, 
but he shook his head, moving more slowly this time. 

“No, | don’t think so,” he said. “My head hurts like 
somebody hit it really hard, and | feel sick from being stuck 
in this room and pondering my death for hours, but | think 
I’m okay. My mind is okay.” 

“Okay,” Charlie said doubtfully. Then something he had 
said finally registered. “Carlton, you said ‘serial killer man 
explained’ for you not to move. You saw who did this to 


you?” 
Carlton got to his knees carefully, then stood, bracing 
himself on a nearby box. He looked at Charlie. “I was 


trapped in that thing for hours; I’m all tingly.” He shook out 
his foot as if to make the point. 

“Did you see who it was?” Charlie repeated. 

“Dave, the guard,” Carlton said. He sounded almost 
surprised that she did not know. Charlie nodded. She had 
known already. 

“What did he tell you?” 

“Not much,” Carlton said. “But ...” His eyes opened 
suddenly, as if he had just remembered something of grave 
importance. He looked away from Charlie and slowly 
dropped to his knees. 

“What is it?” Charlie whispered. 


“Do you want to hear?” he said. He seemed suddenly 
calm for someone who had so narrowly escaped death. 

“What is it?” she demanded. He glanced nervously at her 
for a moment, then took a deep breath, his face draining to 
white. 

“Charlie, the kids, all those years ago ...” 

Charlie snapped to attention. 

“What?” 

“All of them, Michael and the others, they were taken 
from the dining room when no one was looking, and they 
were brought here.” Carlton suddenly recoiled and moved 
toward the doorway, watching the walls as though they 
were crawling with invisible creatures. “He—Dave, the guard 
—he brought them here ...” Carlton rubbed his arms like he 
was suddenly cold and squinted in pain. “He put them into 
suits, Charlie,” he said, his face twisting in sorrow or 
disgust. “Charlie.” He stopped abruptly, a faraway look in 
his eyes. “They are still here.” 

“How do you know that?” Charlie said in such a soft 
whisper that she was almost inaudible. 

Carlton motioned toward the far corner of the room. 
Charlie looked; a yellow Freddy costume was propped 
against the wall, the costume all fitted together, as if he 
were about to walk onstage for a show. 

“That’s the one. That’s the bear | remember from the 
other restaurant.” Charlie clasped her hand over her mouth. 

“Other restaurant?” Carlton looked puzzled. 

“| don’t understand.” Charlie’s gaze was still fixed on the 
yellow costume. “Carlton, | don’t understand.” Her tone was 
urgent. 

“Michael.” 

Charlie stared at him. Michael? 


“What do you mean?” she said in a level voice. 

“I know how it sounds,” he said, and then his voice 
dropped to a whisper. “Charlie, | think it’s Michael in that 
Suit.” 


* OK OX 


“IT still can’t get this thing out!” John sighed in frustration 
and rubbed his hand; the lock was leaving harsh red 
imprints on his fingers. Jessica murmured something 
sympathetic, but she did not take her eyes off the screens. 

“| can’t see anything!” she burst out after a moment. 

The radio squawked, and then Marla’s voice came, 
calling to them from the control room in Pirate’s Cove. 

“Both of you, be quiet and don’t move.” They froze, 
hunching down in their places. Jessica looked at John, a 
question in her eyes, but he shrugged, as at a loss as she 
was. 

Something thudded against the door. John jumped away, 
almost falling. 

“Marla?” Jessica said with a pale expression. “Marla, 
that’s you out there, right?” The thud came again, more 
powerful than before, and the door shook under it. 

“What is that, a sledgehammer?” John whispered 
hoarsely. The door pounded in again and again, dents 
appearing in the metal door, which had looked so solid. 
They huddled back against the control panel with nothing to 
do but watch. Jessica grabbed the back of John’s shirt, 
knotting the cloth between her fingers, and he did not shake 
her away. The door rocked in again, and this time a hinge 
unfolded slightly, exposing a thin crack between the door 
and the frame. The door still held, but it would not hold for 


long. John felt Jessica’s fingers tighten on his shirt; he 
wanted to turn and give her some kind of comfort, but he 
was mesmerized, unable to look away. He could almost see 
out through the little open space, and he craned his neck. 
Another blow came. The crack widened, and on the other 
side he saw eyes peering in, calm and expressionless. 


* OK OX 


“Get out, get out!” Marla shouted, waving her hands at the 
security monitor as if John and Jessica could see her, as if it 
would do any good if they could. Lamar had both hands 
clapped over his mouth, his eyes wide, and Jason was sitting 
on the floor, waiting nervously as though an attack on their 
own door might begin at any moment. The monitors were 
dark, but it was clear that something large was lurking in 
front of the main stage, a black static shape that prowled 
back and forth, momentarily blocking the entire picture. 

“Marla,” Lamar whispered, hoping to quiet her. “Marla, 
look—” He pointed to the monitor showing Pirate’s Cove, 
just outside their door. Marla looked over his shoulder at the 
other screen. The curtain was pulled back, and the space 
was completely empty. The ouT OF ORDER Sign hung perfectly 
Straight across the platform, untouched. 

“The lock, we didn’t ... ,” Marla said feebly, realizing now 
the magnitude of their mistake. Marla turned to Jason, then 
let out a panicked whimper—the door behind him was 
Slowly opening. 

“Shhh.” Lamar quickly flipped a small switch, killing the 
light in the control room, and backed against the wall next 
to the door. Marla and Jason mimicked his motions, 
flattening themselves against the wall across from him. The 


monitors still flickered with static, illuminating the space in 
oscillating grays and the occasional flash of white. 

The small door creaked outward at an excruciating pace, 
a gaping black void widening until the door stopped, fully 
open. 

“Marla!” a static-laced voice called from somewhere on 
the floor. Lamar shot out his foot across the narrow carpet, 
trying to catch the walkie-talkie. 

“Shhh, shhh ...” Marla closed her eyes, pleading in her 
mind for Jessica to stop talking. 

“Marla, where are you?” Jessica’s voice called again. 
Lamar managed to flip the walkie-talkie onto its side, and 
with a click it went silent. He didn’t know if he had jostled a 
battery out of place or somehow managed to flip the switch, 
but it didn’t matter. 

There was nowhere to hide in the tiny room. The ceiling 
was too low to stand, and even with their backs against the 
wall their legs stretched under the doorframe. The ledge 
under the door was high enough to hide their legs from 
anything outside, but not from anything that managed to 
get in. 

As one, they stopped breathing. The room was no longer 
empty; something was entering the space. As it pressed 
forward into the room, they saw a snout and the scratchy 
gloss of two unblinking eyes staring straight ahead. The 
monstrous head threatened to fill the room. 

“Foxy,” Jason mouthed, making no sound. The plastic 
eyes clicked left and right with unnatural motions, searching 
but not seeing. The jaw twitched as though about to open, 
but never did. 

The dim light from the monitors gave his face a reddish 
hue, leaving the rest of him shrouded in darkness. His head 


Slowly moved backward, his ears moving up and down at 
random, programmed as an afterthought a decade before. 
As Foxy backed away, his eyes thrashed back and forth, one 
partially hidden under a rotting eyepatch. Marla held her 
breath, dreading the moment when the eyes would fix on 
her. The head was almost out the door when the eyes 
clicked to the right and found Marla. The head stopped, its 
jaw frozen, slightly open. The plastic eyes remained on 
Marla, who sat in terrified silence. After a moment, the head 
retreated, leaving a black and empty space. 

Jason darted forward to find the door outside and shut it, 
and Marla made a weak grab at him, trying to stop him. He 
brushed past her, then stopped, kneeling in the doorway. He 
looked into the darkness, only now afraid of what must be 
there. He crawled slowly forward, his torso disappearing 
temporarily as he reached outside for the doorknob, then 
pulled himself back in and gently closed the door. Marla and 
Lamar closed their eyes and let out a deep breath at the 
same time. 

Jason looked at them; he was almost smiling when, in a 
blur, the door burst open again and an ugly metal hook sank 
into his leg. He screamed in pain. Marla leaped to grab him, 
but she was too slow. She watched helplessly as Jason was 
dragged through the doorway. 

“Marla!” he cried, clawing futilely at the floor, and she 
howled in despair as he was taken from her again, nothing 
visible of his assailant but the awful glimmer of the hook. 

Marla dove toward the door after him, falling to her 
knees and crawling toward the thing, but Lamar grabbed 
her shoulder and yanked her back, taking hold of the door. 
Before he could pull it shut, it was ripped from his hands 


with an inhuman strength. Suddenly Foxy was there before 
them, coming inside. 

He was full of life, a different creature, and he turned to 
look at Marla, his silver eyes appearing to comprehend. His 
face was a canine rictus, the scrappy orange fur insufficient 
to cover up his skull. He looked between them, turning his 
ghoulish smile first on Lamar, then on Marla. His eyes flared 
and dimmed, and he snapped his jaws with a sound like 
something breaking. They stared, backed up against the 
control panel, and then Lamar realized suddenly what he 
was looking at. 

“He can’t fit all the way in,” he whispered. Marla looked. 
It was true—Foxy’s shoulders were jammed in the doorway, 
his head the only part he could wedge through the door. 

Lamar lunged forward and kicked the animatronic, 
bracing himself against the wall and striking out with his 
foot three times before Foxy gave a low whine, a sound 
more machine than animal, and slunk back out into the 
dark. Lamar snapped the door shut behind him and slid the 
deadbolt into place. They stared at each other for a long 
moment, breathing hard. 

“Jason!” Marla screamed. 

Lamar put his arms around her. She let him hug her, but 
she did not cry, just closed her eyes. 


* OK OX 


“What do you mean, it’s Michael in the suit?” Charlie said 
softly, as if she might be talking to someone who had gone 
mad, while also desperate to hear the answer. Carlton 
looked at the yellow bear for a long moment, and when he 
turned back to Charlie, his face was calm. He opened his 


mouth to speak, and Charlie put a finger to her lips. 
Something was coming; she could hear footsteps out in the 
hall, moving toward them. Deliberate, heavy steps, the 
approach of someone who did not mind if anyone heard. 
Charlie looked wildly around the room and spotted a pipe in 
a corner. She grabbed it and hurried to stand behind the 
door, where whoever opened it would not see her. Carlton 
picked up the torso, as though to use it aS a weapon 
somehow. He looked confused, like he was not thinking 
Clearly. 

“Don’t,” Charlie warned in a low voice, but she was too 
late. Something snapped inside the suit. Carlton dropped it 
and stepped back, a shimmer of blood on his hand. 

“Are you Okay?” Charlie whispered. He nodded, and then 
the doorknob turned. 

Dave appeared in the doorway, his head held high and 
his face grim. It should have been imposing, but he just 
looked like a man walking through a door. 

“Now you've done it,” he announced to the room in 
general, then his eyes lit on Carlton, unfettered. His face 
darkened. Before he could move, Charlie raised the pipe 
high, stepped forward, and swung it down on his head with 
a sickening thunk. 

Dave turned, shock on his face. Charlie lifted the pipe, 
ready to attack again, but the man just stumbled backward 
against the wall and dropped into a sitting position. 

“Carlton! Come on,” Charlie said urgently, but he was 
looking down at his injured hand. “Carlton? Are you hurt?” 

“No,” he said, shaking off his reverie and wiping his hand 
clean with his black shirt. 

“Come on,” Charlie said firmly, taking his arm. “Come on, 
we have to get out of here. | don’t know how long he'll stay 


out.” You’re awfully calm for just having knocked a guy out 
cold, she thought wryly. 

They crept out into the empty hallway, lit only by the dim 
glow of light from the other rooms. Charlie hustled them 
through the swinging doors to the kitchen, where the dark 
was total. The air was thick with a blackness that was 
almost tangible; it was as if they had been swallowed. She 
turned to look at Carlton, but only the faint sound of his 
breathing told her that he was still beside her. Something 
touched her arm, and she stifled a scream. 

“It’s just me,” Carlton hissed, and she let out a sigh. 

“Let’s just make sure that we aren’t being followed, then 
we can find the others and get out of here,” she whispered. 
Charlie glanced back at the door, and the last spots of light 
peeking under it. She scooted herself a little closer to it and 
got to her feet to peer through the round window, careful 
not to touch it. 

“What do you see?” Carlton whispered. 

“Nothing. | think it’s safe.” 

Just as she finished speaking, a form passed by, 
darkening the window. Charlie jumped back, almost falling 
over Carlton. They stumbled forward, rushing to get away 
from the door. 

Suddenly two beams split the darkness, illuminating the 
room in a harsh yellow light. Chica loomed there, almost on 
top of them. She stretched up to her full height, growing 
taller still. She must have been hiding here all along, Charlie 
thought. The dark recesses of the kitchen could be hiding 
anything. Chica looked at both of them in turn, the beams of 
light shifting dizzyingly as her eyes snapped mechanically 
from one side to the other. Then she paused, and Charlie 
grabbed Carlton’s arm. 


“Run!” she screamed, and they took off, looping around 
the prep table, the metal furniture clattering as they rushed 
clumsily past it. Behind them, Chica’s steps were long and 
Slow. At last they reached the door, and they burst out into 
the hall and ran for the main dining room. 


* OK OX 


John and Jessica were silent, listening to the clamor outside. 
John was resting his hand on the door of the control room; 
whatever had been on the other side was gone, or at least 
was pretending to be. The lock had been wrenched out of 
the floor. John tried the knob, but the door, twisted out of 
Shape, still stuck. 

“Are you crazy?” Jessica exclaimed, alarmed. 

“What else are we going to do?” John said calmly. Jessica 
didn’t answer. 

John backed up against the control panel and gave the 
door a calculated kick, moving it an inch closer to opening. 

“Here, let me,” Jessica said, and before he could reply 
she had delivered a kick of her own, the door again moving 
just a little. 

They took turns, not speaking, until finally John kicked 
and the top hinge broke. John quickly wrestled the door the 
rest of the way off until they could crawl out. 

They hurried out and stopped, exposed in the main 
dining room. Jessica looked at the main stage in misery. It 
was empty. 

“I! don’t know how this is safer,” she said, but John was 
not listening. 

“Charlie!” he cried, then covered his mouth with his 
hand, too late. Charlie and Carlton were running from the 


dark hallway at a furious pace. 

“Come on!” Charlie yelled at them, not slowing down as 
She passed, and John and Jessica ran after them as Charlie 
led them out of the dining room into the opposite hall, 
toward the storeroom they had come in through. 

Charlie ran down the hall with a purpose, stopping in 
front of a closed door and trying to get it open. Behind them 
loomed the open mouth of a pitch-black party room, a wide, 
empty space that could have hidden anything. John turned 
his back to the group, keeping an eye on the abyss. 

“Is it locked?” Carlton asked, an edge of rising panic in 
his voice. 

“No, just stuck,” Charlie said. She forced it, and the door 
popped open. They hurried inside, John lingering until the 
last moment, his eyes still on the darkness behind him. 

When the door was shut, Charlie reached for the light 
switch by the door, but John put a hand on her arm. 

“Don’t turn the light on,” he said, looking back for a 
moment. “We have enough light; let your eyes adjust.” 

There was a window high up on the door, thick glass with 
a bubbling frosted pattern that let a trickle of light and color 
into the room from the hallway. 

“Right,” Charlie said. A light on in here would have 
marked them out clearly. In the semidarkness, she surveyed 
the room. It had been an office, though not one she 
remembered visiting often; she was not sure who had used 
it. There were cartons here and there on the floor, 
overstuffed to bulging with papers, their lids perched 
Sheepishly on top of the mess inside. There was an old desk 
in the corner, a grayish-blue metal with visible dents in the 
surface. Jessica boosted herself up to sit on it. 


“Lock the door,” Jessica said in an irritated tone, and 
Charlie did. There was a button set into the knob, which she 
knew would be useless, and a flimsy bolt lock, the kind in 
bathroom stalls and on picket fences. 

“| guess it’s better than nothing,” she said. 





They sat silently for a few minutes in the little office, 
everyone eyeing the door, waiting. /t’s just another place to 
be trapped, Charlie thought. 

“We have to get out of here,” Jessica said softly, echoing 
Charlie’s thoughts. Suddenly Carlton made a small sound of 
distress. Spasmodically, he grabbed a cardboard box, 
tipping it over to dump out some of the contents, and 
vomited into it. His stomach was empty; he retched futilely, 
his guts clenching and seizing to no effect. At last he sat 
back, gasping. His face was red, and there were tears in his 
eyes. 

“Carlton? Are you okay?” John asked, alarmed. 

“Yeah, never better,” Carlton said as his breathing 
returned slowly to normal. 


“You have a concussion,” Charlie said. “Look at me.” She 
knelt down in front of him and looked at his eyes, trying to 
remember what the pupils were supposed to look like if 
someone had a concussion. Carlton waggled his eyebrows. 

“Oh, oh, ow!” He ground his teeth and ducked his head, 
clutching it as if someone might try to take it away from 
him. “Sorry,” he said after a moment, still bent over in pain. 
“I think it was all that running. I’ll be okay.” 

“But—” Charlie started to protest, but he cut her off, 
straightening with a visible effort. 

“Charlie, it’s fine. Can you blame me for being a little out 
of sorts? What about you?” He pointed at her arm, and she 
looked down, confused. 

There was a small, bright red patch leaking through the 
bandage on her arm; the wound must have opened while 
they were fleeing. 

“Oh,” Charlie said, suddenly a little nauseated herself. 
John moved toward her to help, but she waved him away. 
“I’m fine,” she said. She moved the arm experimentally; it 
ached with the same dull pain that had been radiating 
through it for the last few days, but it did not seem worse, 
and the spot of blood wasn’t growing very fast. 

There was another rumble of thunder outside, and the 
walls trembled. 

“We have to get out of here. Not out of this room, out of 
this building!” Jessica exclaimed. 

“Carlton needs a doctor,” John added. 

Jessica’s voice rose in pitch, sounding frantic. “We're al// 
going to need a doctor if we don’t leave!” 

“lI know,” Charlie said. She felt a rising irritation at the 
self-evident statement, and she tried to tamp it down. They 
were scared, and they were trapped; sniping at one another 


would not help. “Okay,” she said. “You’re right. We need to 
get out. We could try the skylight.” 

“| don’t think we’ll be able to get out that way,” John 
said. 

“There’s got to be a ladder in this place somewhere,” 
Charlie replied, her fear receding as she considered the 
options. She sat up straighter, gathering herself together. 

“It won’t help,” Jessica said. 

“Air vents,” John said hastily. “The ones Jason got in 
through were too small, but there have to be others. 
Windows—Freddy’s had windows, right? They have to lead 
somewhere.” 

“| think it’s safe to say that they’ve all been bricked up.” 
Charlie shook her head and looked at the floor for a 
moment, then she met John’s eyes. “This whole place has 
been sealed.” 

The walkie-talkie crackled to life, and they all jumped. 
Lamar’s voice came over the radio. 

“John?” 

John grabbed the radio. 

“Yeah? Yeah, I’m here, and I’m with Charlie, Jessica, and 
Carlton. We're in an office.” 

“Good,” Lamar said. “Listen—” There was a_ brief 
scrabbling noise, then Marla’s voice came through. 

“Good,” she said. “Listen, I’m looking at the monitors, 
and it looks like all the robots are on the main stage again.” 

“What about Pirate’s Cove?” Charlie put in, leaning over 
John to talk into the receiver. “Is Foxy there, too?” 

There was a brief pause. 

“The curtain is closed,” Marla said. 

“Marla, is everything okay?” Charlie said. 


” 


“Yeah,” she answered shortly, and the background static 
vanished abruptly—she had turned the walkie-talkie off. 

Charlie and John exchanged a glance. 

“Something’s wrong,” Carlton said. “Other than the 
obvious, | mean.” He gestured in a vague circular motion, 
indicating everything around them. 

“What are you talking about?” Jessica was losing her 
patience. 

“With Marla, | mean,” he said. “Something’s wrong. Call 
her back.” 

John pressed the call button again. “Marla? What’s going 
on?” 

There was no reply for a long minute, then Lamar replied, 
“We don’t know where Jason is.” His voice began to break. 
“He’s in danger.” 

Charlie felt a jolt through her stomach. No. She heard 
John take a deep breath. 

There was a shuddering sound from the other end of the 
radio: Marla was crying. She started to speak, broke off, and 
tried again. 

“Foxy,” she said, her voice a little loud as she forced the 
words out. “Foxy took him.” 

“Foxy?” Charlie said carefully. The figure standing in the 
front hallway, the rain whipping past it, the silver eyes, 
burning in the dark. She took the walkie-talkie from John’s 
hand; he gave it up without protest. 

“Marla, listen, we’re going to find him. Do you hear me?” 
Her bravado echoed emptily, even in her own ears. The 
walkie-talkie made no sound. Agitated, needing to move, to 
do something, Charlie turned to the others. 

“I’m going to check out the skylight one more time,” she 
said. “Jessica, come with me; you’ve got the best chance of 


fitting.” 

“Right,” Jessica said reluctantly, but she got to her feet. 

“You shouldn’t go alone,” John said, standing to go with 
them. Charlie shook her head. 

“Someone has to stay with him,’ 
Carlton. 

“Hey, I’m a big boy. | can stay by myself,” Carlton said, 
speaking to a shelf. 

“Nobody is staying by themselves,” Charlie said firmly. 
John gave her a brief, precise nod, something just short of a 
salute, and she returned it. She looked back at Carlton, 
whose face was drawn, tight with pain. “Don’t let him fall 
asleep,” she told John in a low voice. 

“| know,” he whispered. 

“Il can hear you, you know,” Carlton said, but his voice 
was flat and fatigued. 

“Come on,” Jessica said. Charlie shut the door behind 
them and heard John slip the lock back into place. 

Charlie led the way. The closet with the skylight wasn’t 
far, and they crept down the hallway and through the doors 
without incident. 

“The skylight. Look, there’s no way to climb out through 
it, even for me. To get to the roof, | would have to put all my 
weight on the glass; it would break. Even if we had a ladder, 
this isn’t the way out,” Jessica said. 

“We could take the skylight window off,” Charlie 
suggested weakly. 

“Il guess we could break out all the glass. But that just 
brings us back to the ladder question. We need to look 
around.” 


, 


she said, gesturing at 


A sudden knock on the door caught John’s attention, and he 
sprang to his feet and listened carefully. Charlie knocked 
again, briefly regretting that they had not come up with 
some sort of signal. “It’s me,” she called softly, and the lock 
Slid back. John looked worried. 

“What is it?” Charlie said, and he cast his eyes in 
Carlton’s direction. Carlton was huddled on the floor, his 
knees drawn up tight to his chest, and his arms were 
wrapped oddly around his head. Charlie knelt down beside 
him. 

“Carlton?” she said, and he made a small whimper. She 
put a hand on his shoulder, and he leaned in to her a little. 

“Charlie? Sorry about all this,” he whispered. 

“Shhh. Tell me what’s going on,” she said. She had a sick 
feeling of dread. Something was really wrong, and she did 
not know how much was his injury and how much was just 
exhaustion, pain, and terror. “You’re going to be okay,” she 
said, stroking his back and hoping it was true. 

After a long moment, he pushed at her, and she drew 
back, slightly hurt, until she saw him pitch forward over the 
cardboard box, retching again. She looked up at John. 

“He needs a doctor,” he said in a low voice, and she 
nodded. Carlton sat up again and wiped his face with his 
sleeve. 

“It’s not that bad. I’m just so tired.” 

“You can’t go to sleep,” Charlie said. 

“Il know, | won’t. But | didn’t sleep last night, and | 
haven’t eaten since yesterday—it just makes everything 
worse. | had a bad moment, but I’m okay.” Charlie looked at 
him dubiously but did not argue. 

“Now what?” Jessica said. Charlie didn’t answer right 
away, even though she knew the question was for her. She 


was picturing the guard, his eyes rolling back in his head as 
he collapsed, his thin face going slack as he fell. They 
needed answers, and he was the one who had them. 

“Now let’s hope | didn’t accidentally kill that guard,” 
Charlie said. 

“| don’t want to go back out there,” Jessica said. 

“We have to go back to where | found Carlton.” 

“Hang on,” said John, pulling out the radio again. “Hey, 
Marla, are you there?” There was a blip of static, then 
Marla’s voice. 

“Yeah, we’re here.” 

“We need to get to the supply room. It’s off the main 
dining room, past the stage. Can you see the area?” 

There was a pause as Marla searched her screens. 

“Il can see most of it. Where are you? | can’t see you.” 

“We're in an office. It’s—” John looked at Charlie for help, 
and she took the radio. 

“Marla, do you see another hall leading from the main 
room? Sort of the same direction as the closet, but next to 
it?” 

“What? There are too many hallways!” 

“Hang on. Can you see this?” Over the protests of the 
others, Charlie opened the office door and poked her head 
out cautiously. When she saw that the space was clear—or 
at least she was fairly sure it was clear—she stepped out 
into the open, looked up, and waved. There was nothing but 
a quiet, steady static from the walkie-talkie, then Marla’s 
voice came through, excited. 

“| see you! Charlie, | can see you.” 

Charlie ducked back into the little room, and Jessica 
caught the door and shut it behind her, double- and triple- 
checking the lock. 


“Okay, Marla,” Charlie said. “Follow the cameras. You can 
see that hall. Can you see the main dining room?” 

“Yes,” she said instantly, “most of it. | can see the stage 
and the area around it, and | can see the second hallway, 
the one parallel to yours.” 

“Can you see the door at the end?” 

“Yes, but Charlie, | can’t see into the supply room.” 

“We'll just have to take our chances with what’s in 
there,” Charlie answered. “Marla,” she said into the 
receiver, “are we clear to get to the dining room?” 

“Yes,” Marla said after a moment. “I think so.” 

Charlie took the lead, and all four of them made their 
way slowly down the hall. Jessica hung back a little with 
Carlton, staying so close to him he almost tripped over her 
feet. 

“Jessica, I’m fine,” he said. 

“| know,” she said quietly, but she did not move away, 
and he did not protest again. 

When they reached the end of the hallway, they stopped. 

“Marla?” Charlie said into the radio. 

“Go ahead—no, stop!” she cried, and they froze, pressing 
their bodies up against the walls as if it might make them 
invisible. Marla whispered over the walkie-talkie, her hushed 
tones distorting her voice even more. 

“Something—stay quiet—” She said something else, but 
it was unintelligible. Charlie craned her neck to see out into 
the room and what might be lurking there, some murky 
form, lumbering heavily in the shadows, poised to attack. 
There was a long rumble outside, and the panels on the 
ceiling rattled as if they were about to fall. 

“Marla, | don’t see anything,” Charlie said into the 
walkie-talkie. She looked at the stage, where all of the 


animatronics were still in position, staring sightlessly into 
the distance. 

“Me neither,” John whispered. 

“Sorry,” Marla said. “Not to overstate the obvious, but 
it’s creepy in here. It feels like it’s been midnight for hours. 
Does anyone know what time it is?” 

Charlie checked her watch, squinting to see the little 
hand. “It’s almost four,” she said. 

“A.m. or p.m.?” Marla said. She didn’t sound like she was 
joking. 

“P.m.” Lamar’s voice came over the radio, hard to hear, 
like he was not close enough to the receiver. “I told you, 
Marla, it’s daytime.” 

“It doesn’t feel like daytime,” Marla sobbed, shrieking as 
the building shook with a crash of thunder. 

“| know,” he said softly, and the radio clicked off. Charlie 
looked at the walkie-talkie for a moment with a sense of 
emptiness. It was like hanging up the phone, knowing the 
person on the other end was still there but feeling a loss 
anyway, as if they might be gone for good. 

“Charlie?” John said, and she looked at him. He cast a 
nod back at Carlton, who was leaning against the wall, his 
eyes closed. Jessica was hovering worriedly, not sure what 
to do. “We have to get him out of here,” John said. 

“Il know,” Charlie said. “Come on. That guard is our best 
chance of getting out alive.” With one more look at the open 
space in front of them, she led them out into the main room. 

Crossing in front of the stage, she saw John and Jessica 
glancing upward, but she refused to look at the animals, as 
if that would stop them from looking at her. It did not help; 
She felt their eyes on her, taking her measure, waiting for 
their moment. Finally she could not stand it—she snapped 


her head around to look as they passed. She saw only the 
inanimate robots, their eyes fixed on something that no one 
else could see. 

They paused again at a hall entrance, waiting for Marla 
to guide them, and after an anxious moment her voice 
came over the radio, calm again. 

“Go ahead, the hall is clear.” 

They went. They were almost there, and Charlie felt a 
tightness in her stomach like a living knot, something 
Snakelike that was fighting to be free. She thought of 
Carlton, retching on the floor of the office, and she felt for a 
moment like she might do the same. She stopped a few feet 
from the door, holding up a hand. 

“I! don’t know if he’s in there,” she said in a low voice. 
“And if he is, | don’t know if he’s—awake.” Now let’s hope | 
didn’t accidentally kill that guard, she had said. She was 
only kidding, but now the words came back, unsettling her. 
It had not really occurred to her that he might be dead until 
the words were out of her mouth, and now, as she stood in 
the hall, about to find out, the idea took hold. 

As if he knew what she was thinking, John said, “Charlie, 
we have to go in.” 

She nodded. John moved as if to take the lead, but she 
shook her head. Whatever was in there, it was her doing. 
Her responsibility. She closed her eyes for a brief moment, 
then turned the knob. 

He was dead. He was lying on the floor, on his back, his 
eyes closed and his face ashen. She felt herself put a hand 
over her mouth, but it was as if someone else were moving 
her body. She felt numb, the knots in her stomach gone still 
and dead. John pushed past her. He knelt and slapped the 
man’s face. 


“John,” she said, hearing a note of panic in her voice. He 
looked up at her, surprised. 

“He’s not dead,” he said. “He’s just out cold. He can’t tell 
us anything like this.” 

“We have to tie him up or something,” Jessica said. 
“Don’t wake him up like this.” 

“Yeah, gotta agree with that,” Carlton said. His eyes 
searched the room for devices, tools, or costumes—anything 
that Dave could—and probably would—use against them, 
given the opportunity. 

Charlie just stared, the numb feeling lingering. He’s not 
dead. She shook herself all over like a dog, trying to rid 
herself of the remnants of shock, and cleared her throat. 

“Let’s find something to tie him up with,” she said. “This 
place seems to have everything.” Jessica headed to the 
back of the room, where costume pieces were piled 
haphazardly, empty mascots’ heads staring out from odd 
angles with ghastly eyes. 

“Careful touching the costumes,” Charlie called toward 
Jessica. 

“We could always put him in one of them, like he did to 
me,” Carlton said. There was an uncharacteristic edge to his 
voice, something hard and painful. Charlie didn’t think it 
was from his injury. He sat down on a box, his face strained 
and his arms wrapped around his body like he was holding 
himself together. 

Suddenly Carlton’s face lit up with alarm. 

“Don’t touch—” he shouted and pushed Charlie out of 
the way. He stumbled past Jessica, who was searching 
through the clutter, and started tearing his way through the 
mess, picking up boxes and pushing things out of his way, 
scrambling in a desperate search. 


“Charlie, where is it?!” he demanded, his gaze roaming 
around the room futilely. Charlie went to him, following 
where he looked, and realized what was missing: the yellow 
bear suit that had been slouched in the corner. 

“What?” John said, confused. 

“Charlie, where is it? Where is Michael?” Carlton sat with 
a thud on a cardboard box that sagged a little but held his 
weight. He was only looking at Charlie, as if they were the 
only people in the room. 

“Michael?” John whispered. He looked at Charlie, but she 
returned his gaze silently; she had no answers to offer him. 

“Michael was there.” Carlton pressed his lips firmly, 
rocking himself back and forth. 

“l believe you,” Charlie answered calmly, her voice quiet. 
John put his hands on his knees and let out a breath. 

“I’m going to go help Jessica,” he muttered and stood up 
with resignation. “There has to be rope around here 
somewhere.” 

“Be right there.” Charlie smiled at Carlton, hoping to 
reassure him, then joined the others, heading for the boxes 
in the corner beside the door. 

The first just held more paperwork, official forms with 
tiny print, but underneath was a box of tangled extension 
cords. 

“Hey, | found something,” Charlie said, but she was cut 
off by a banshee scream. 

Charlie was on her feet instantly, ready to run, but 
everyone else was still. Jessica was pointing to something in 
the corner, almost shaking. John was behind her, his eyes 
wide. 

“What is it?” Charlie demanded, and when they did not 
answer, she rushed over and looked down at the pile of 


” 


empty costumes to where Jessica was pointing. 

It was hard to sort out what was what in the pile of 
mascots. She stared blankly at the jumble, seeing nothing 
but fur and eyes and beaks and paws, and then it resolved 
before her eyes. 

A dead man. 

He looked young, not much older than they were—and he 
looked familiar. 

“That’s the cop, the one from the other night,” John said, 
recovering his voice. 

“What?” Carlton said, snapping to attention. He came 
over to look. “That’s Officer Dunn. | know him.” 

“Your dad sent him to look for you,” Charlie said quietly. 

“What do we do?” Jessica said. She had been inching 
Slowly backward, and now her foot bumped against Dave, 
and she jumped, stifling another scream. It pulled Charlie’s 
eyes away from Dunn, and looking away was enough to 
recall her to their task. 

“There’s nothing we can do,” she said firmly. “Come on, 
we don’t know how much time we have before he wakes 
up.” 

John and Jessica followed her across the room, Jessica 
catching up and keeping close to Charlie as if afraid to get 
too far away from her again. Charlie grabbed a handful of 
cords and tossed it to John. 

It was a long and tedious process. They propped Dave up 
into a sitting position against the wall, but he kept sliding 
sideways until John took hold of his shoulders. John bent him 
forward as Charlie tied his hands behind his back. She 
finished and looked up to see John with a faint smile on his 
face. 


“Do my knots amuse you?” she said as lightly as she 
could manage. The feel of Dave’s flesh, alive yet limp and 
heavier than it should have been, was disturbing, and as 
She let go of him, she could still feel the traces of his 
clammy skin on her palms. 

He shrugged. “All those times we played cops and 
robbers seem to have paid off.” 

“! forgot about that.” She laughed. He nodded sagely. 

“And yet | still bear the scars of the rope burns you gave 
me.” John smiled. 

“And that was before | was even a Girl Scout,” Charlie 
said. “Stop complaining and pick up his feet. Let’s hope my 
Skills haven’t atrophied.” 

She finished tying up Dave, pretending a confidence she 
did not really have. The cords were thick and stiff; they were 
hard to manipulate, and she was not sure how long they 
would hold. When she was as sure as she could be, she 
stepped back. 

John looked around for a moment as though searching for 
something, then slipped out through the door without a 
word. 

Carlton was on his knees, and he walked toward Dave 
without standing, a clunky, unsteady walk—he looked like 
he might tip over at any moment. “Wakey, wakey, sleepy 
head,” he whispered. 

“We've got this, Carlton, thanks. You just relax.” Charlie 
rolled her eyes toward Jessica, then turned her attention 
back to Dave, slapping his face lightly, but he remained 
inert. 

“Hey, dirtbag. Wake up.” She slapped him again. 

“Here, try this.” John reappeared with a can of water. 
“Water fountain,” was the only explanation he offered. “The 


can didn’t hold much,” he added. 

“That’s okay,” Charlie said. She took it from him and held 
it over Dave’s head, letting the small streams of water 
dribbling from the holes in the tin fall on his face. She aimed 
for his mouth, and after a few moments, he spluttered, his 
eyes opening. 

“Oh, good, you’re awake,” Charlie said, then dumped the 
rest of the water on his head. 

He said nothing, but his eyes remained open in a stiff, 
unnatural stare. 

“So, Dave,” she said. “How about you tell us what’s 
going on?” 

His mouth opened slightly, but no words came out. After 
a moment he became still again, so still that Charlie 
reluctantly pressed her fingers to his neck to check for a 
pulse. 

“Is he alive?” John said, creeped out by what seemed to 
be an on-again, off-again animated corpse. He moved closer 
to the man, Kneeling so their eyes were level, and looked at 
him gravely, searching for something. 

“His pulse is normal,” Charlie reported. She pulled her 
hand back, more startled than if he’d been dead. 

“Charlie, there’s something different about him,” John 
said urgently. He reached out and grasped Dave's chin, 
turning his head back and forth. Dave did not resist; he just 
kept staring without expression, as if the world around him 
were not really there. 

“What do you mean?” Charlie said, though she saw it, 
too. It was as if the guard, the man they had met, had been 
Stripped away, and what sat before them was nothing but a 
blank canvas. 


John shook his head and released the guard’s chin, 
wiping his hands on his pants. He stood and stepped back, 
putting a distance between them. 

“| don’t know,” he_ said. “There’s just something 
different.” 

“Why don’t you tell us about the kids?” Carlton was 
leaning back against the wall, emboldened but still not 
completely balanced. “The kids you killed, you stuffed them 
into those suits out there.” Carlton motioned toward the 
stage outside. 

“Carlton, shut up,” John said angrily. “Everything you’re 
saying iS nonsense.” 

“No, it’s true,” Charlie whispered. John gave her a 
searching look, then turned to the others, who had no more 
answers than Charlie. He looked back at Dave with an 
expression of renewed disgust. Seeing John’s face, Charlie 
was suddenly struck with the weight of memory. Michael, 
who had been a cheerful, careless little boy, Michael who 
had drawn portraits of them all, passing them around with a 
solemn pride. Michael who had been killed, whose final 
moments must have been all pain and terror. Michael, who 
had been killed by the man before them. She looked to the 
others, and on each of their faces she saw the same single 
thought: This was the man who killed Michael. 

Without warning, John’s arm shot out like lightning and 
struck Dave across the jaw with a loud crack. Dave slumped 
back, and John lunged and almost fell from the impact of the 
strike. John regained his posture and bounced a little on the 
balls of his feet, alert, waiting for a reaction, or a chance to 
strike again. Dave’s body moved upward, straightening, but 
the movement was too smooth. He seemed to make no 
effort, use no muscles, and exert no energy. Slowly, his 


posture corrected, unfolding to his slumped state, his mouth 
hanging open. 

Carlton stumbled forward. “Take that, jackass.” He swung 
his arm into the air and swayed on his feet. Jessica leaped 
forward just in time to catch him in her arms. 

Dave continued to stare, and it was only after a moment 
that Charlie considered that he might actually be staring at 
something. She turned, following his line of sight, then 
suddenly she recoiled. On the table along the wall sat a 
rabbit’s head. 

“That’s it? You want that?” Charlie stood and approached 
the mask. “You need this?” she added in a whisper. She 
picked it up carefully, the light catching the edges of the 
spring locks that filled the mascot’s head. She picked it up 
and carried it almost ceremoniously to Dave, who tipped his 
head down in a barely noticeable fashion. 

Charlie placed it over his head, not being nearly as 
cautious as she had been with Carlton. When the mascot’s 
head was fully resting on his shoulders, the large face raised 
itself until it was almost completely upright. Dave’s eyes 
opened steadily, glassy and without emotion, like the robots 
on the stage outside. Lines of sweat began to trickle down 
from under the mask, a stain darkening the collar of his 
uniform shirt. 

“My dad trusted you,” Charlie said. She was on her knees 
now, looking intently at the rabbit’s face. “What did you do 
to him?” Her voice broke. 

“| helped him create.” The voice came from inside the 
mask, but it was not Dave’s, not the pitiful, sour tone they 
would have recognized. The voice of the rabbit was smooth 
and rich, almost musical. It was confident, somehow 
reassuring—a voice that might convince you of almost 


anything. Dave cocked his head to the side, and the mask 
shifted so that only one of his bulbous eyes could peer 
through the sockets. 

“We both wanted to love,” he said in those melodious 
tones. “Your father loved. And now | have loved.” 

“You killed,” Carlton said, then burst out with something 
that sounded like a laugh. He seemed more lucid now, as if 
anger was focusing his mind. He shook loose of Jessica’s 
hands on his arms and knelt down on the floor. 

“You're a sick bastard,” Carlton sputtered. “And you've 
created monsters. The kids you killed are still here. You’ve 
imprisoned them!” 

“They are home, with me.” Dave’s voice was coarse, and 
the large mascot’s head slid forward and tilted as he spoke. 
“Their happiest day.” 

“How do we get out?” Charlie placed one hand on the 
mascot’s head and pushed it back into position on Dave’s 
Shoulders. The fur felt wet and sticky, as though the 
costume itself were sweating. 

“There isn’t a way out anymore. All that’s left is family.” 
His round eye reappeared through one of the sockets, 
glimmering in the light. He locked eyes with Charlie for a 
moment, struggling to lean in closer. “Oh,” he gasped. 
“You're something beautiful, aren’t you?” Charlie recoiled as 
if he had touched her. What’s that supposed to mean? She 
took another step back, fighting a surge of revulsion. 

“Well, then, you’re trapped, too, and you’re not going to 
be hurting anyone else,” John said in response to the veiled 
threat. 

“I! don’t have to,” Dave answered. “When it gets dark, 
they will awaken; the children’s spirits will rise. They will kill 
you. I'll just walk out in the morning, stepping over your 


corpses, one by one.” He looked at each of them in turn, as 
if relishing the bloody scene. 

“They'll kill you, too,” Jessica said. 

“No, | am quite confident that | will survive.” 

“Really?” John said suddenly. “I’m pretty sure they’re the 
spirits of the kids you killed,” he all but spat. “Why would 
they hurt us? It’s you they’re after.” 

“They don’t remember,” Dave said. “They’ve forgotten. 
The dead do forget. All they know is that you are here, 
trying to take away their happiest day. You are intruders.” 
He lowered his voice to a hush. “You are grown-ups.” 

They looked at one another. 

“We're not—” Jessica began. 

“You're close enough. Especially to a vengeful, confused, 
and frightened child. None of you will survive the night.” 

“And what makes you think they won’t kill you?” John 
said again, and Dave’s eyes took on something shining, 
almost beatific. 

“Because | am one of them,” he said. 





They all stood staring at the man on the floor. Jessica took 
an involuntary step backward. Charlie was glued to the spot; 
She could not look away from him. Because | am one of 
them. As if he could tell what she was thinking, John 
stepped up beside her. 

“Charlie, he’s insane,” he said quietly, and it was enough 
to break her away from that dreadful, ecstatic gaze. She 
turned to John. 

“We have to get out,” she said. He nodded, turned back 
to the group, and gestured to the walkie-talkie in his hand. 

“I’m going back to the control room,” he said. “These 
things are police radios; there has to be a way to get them 
to reach the outside. Maybe | can use the equipment in 
there to get a signal somehow.” 


“I'll go with you,” Charlie said instantly, but he shook his 
head. 

“You have to stay with them,” he said, barely audible. 
Charlie looked over at Jessica and Carlton. He was right. 
Carlton needed someone with him, and Jessica—Jessica was 
holding it together, but she couldn’t be left alone in charge 
of the safety of both of them. Charlie nodded. 

“Be careful,” she said. 

He didn’t answer; instead he tucked the walkie-talkie into 
his belt, gave her a wink, and left. 


* OK OX 


Clay Burke was in his office, reviewing the week’s case files. 
There was not much: traffic violations, two petty thefts, and 
one confession to the murder of Abraham Lincoln. Clay 
shuffled through the papers and sighed. Shaking his head, 
he pulled open the bottom drawer of his desk and removed 
the file that had been plaguing him all morning. 

Freddy’s. When he closed his eyes, he was there again, 
the cheerful family restaurant, its floor streaked with blood. 
After Michael disappeared, he had worked fourteen-hour 
days, sometimes sleeping in the station. Every time he 
came home he went to look at Carlton, who was usually 
asleep. He wanted to grab his son and hold him close, never 
let him go. It could have been any of the children there that 
day; it was blind, dumb luck that the killer had spared his 
own. 

At the time, it was the first murder that the department 
had dealt with. It was a sixteen-person department, usually 
charged with small thefts and noise complaints, and to be 


handed a gruesome murder made all of them feel a little 
like kids whose toy guns had suddenly turned real. 

Clay opened the file, knowing what he would find. It was 
only a partial report; the rest of it was in a storage room in 
the basement. He scanned the familiar words, the 
bureaucratic language that tried but failed to obscure the 
point: There had been no justice done. Sometimes the guilty 
get away with terrible things, but it is the price we pay. He 
had said that to Charlie. He cringed a little now, realizing 
how that must have sounded, to her of all people. 

He picked up the phone, calling the front desk in a 
moment of urgency rather than walking the twenty feet to 
ask in person. 

“Has Dunn reported back from Freddy’s?” he asked 
before the officer on the other end could speak. 

“No, sir,” she said, “I’ll—” 

He hung up, not waiting for her to finish. Clay stared 
restlessly at the wall for a long moment, then grabbed his 
coffee cup and headed to the basement. 

He didn’t have to search for the box of evidence from the 
Freddy’s disappearances; he had been here before. There 
was no one around, and so instead of taking it upstairs to 
his office, Clay sat down on the concrete floor, spreading 
papers and photographs around him. There were interviews, 
witness statements, and reports from the on-scene officers, 
Clay included. He sifted through them aimlessly. He didn’t 
know what he was looking for; there was nothing new here. 

There was nothing to find, really. They knew who did it. 
At first he had suspected Henry, just like so many others 
around town. It was a terrible thought, but it was a terrible 
crime; there was no solution that would not be shocking. He 
had not been the one to question Charlie’s father, but he 


had read the transcript. The man had been almost 
incoherent, so shaken that he could not give straight 
answers. He sounded as if he were lying, and to most 
people that was proof enough. But Clay had resisted, had 
delayed having him arrested, and sure enough they came to 
William Afton, Henry’s partner. Afton seemed like the normal 
One in the venture, the businessman. Henry was the artist; 
he always seemed to be off in another world, some part of 
his mind thinking about his mechanical creatures even when 
he was holding a conversation about the weather or the 
kids’ soccer games. There was something off about Henry, 
something almost shell-shocked; it seemed like a miracle 
that he could have produced a child as apparently normal as 
Charlie. 

Clay remembered when Henry had moved to town and 
begun construction of the new restaurant. Someone had 
told him that Henry had a kid who had been abducted 
several years prior, but he didn’t know much else. He 
seemed like a nice enough guy, though he was obviously 
terribly alone, his grief visible even at a distance. Then 
Freddy Fazbear’s opened, and the town came alive. That 
was also when Charlie appeared. Clay hadn’t known Henry 
even had a daughter until that day. 

William Afton was the one who made Freddy’s a business, 
as he had the previous restaurant. Afton was as robust and 
lively as Henry was withdrawn and shadowy. He was a hefty 
man who had the ruddy geniality of a financially shrewd 
Santa Claus. And he had killed the children. Clay knew it; 
the whole department knew it. He had been present for 
each abduction, and he had mysteriously and _ briefly 
vanished at the same time as each child went missing. A 
search of his house had found a room crammed with boxes 


of mechanical parts and a musty yellow rabbit suit as well 
as stacks of journals full of raving paranoia, passages about 
Henry that ranged from wild jealousy to near worship. 

But there had been no evidence, there had been no 
bodies, and so there could be no charge. William Afton had 
left town, and there was nothing to stop him. They did not 
even know where he had gone. Clay picked up a picture 
from the pile; it had been taken, framed, from the wall of 
Henry’s office at the restaurant. It was a picture of the two 
of them together, Henry and William, grinning into the 
camera in front of the newly opened Freddy Fazbear’s. He 
stared at it; he had stared at it before. Henry’s eyes did not 
quite match his smile. The expression looked forced, but 
then, it always did. There was nothing unusual here, except 
that one of the men had turned out to be a killer. 

Suddenly, Clay felt a shock of recognition, something 
indistinct he could not quite catch. He closed his eyes, 
letting his mind wander like a dog off the lead: Go on, find it. 
There was something about William, something familiar, 
something recent. Clay’s eyes snapped open. He shoved 
everything back into the evidence box, cramming it in 
messily, keeping out only the photograph. Clutching it, he 
took the stairs up two at a time, almost running by the time 
he got to the main floor of the station. He headed straight 
for a particular filing cabinet, ignoring the greetings of his 
startled officers. He tore open the drawer, pawing through it 
until—there it was, employee background checks requested 
by businesses from the last six months. 

He pulled out the stack and flipped through it, looking for 
photos. In the third folder, he found it. He picked up the 
picture and held it up next to the one of Henry and William, 
turning so his body did not block the light. 


It’s him. 

The background check application was labeled “Dave 
Miller,” but it was unmistakably William Afton. Afton had 
been fat and affable; the man in the picture was sallow and 
thin, his skin sagging and his expression unpleasant, as if he 
had forgotten how to smile. He looked like a poor facsimile 
of himself. Or maybe, Clay thought, he looked like he had 
dropped his disguise. 

Clay flipped the page back to see why the check had 
been requested, and his face drained white, his breathing 
stopping for a moment. Clay stood, grabbing his jacket in 
the same motion, then stopped. Slowly, he sat, letting the 
jacket fall from his fingers. He took the partial file back out 
of its drawer, and delicately he lifted one of the photos out. 
It had been taken in the aftermath, when the place was no 
more than a crime scene. He paused for a moment and 
closed his eyes. Then he looked again at the picture, willing 
himself to see it as if for the first time. 

There was a glimmer of light he had never noticed 
before. One of the animatronics on the stage, the bear, 
Freddy, was looking toward the cameraman, one of his eyes 
illuminated with a smear of light. 

Clay put the picture aside, moving to the next one. This 
one was from a different angle, but the side of the main 
stage was still in the frame. Chica’s body was facing away 
from the camera, but her face was turned directly toward it, 
and another smear of light streaked across her left eye. Clay 
rubbed it with the tip of his finger, making sure it wasn’t a 
defect in the paper. The next photo showed Bonnie in the 
darkness behind the chairs. A pinpoint of light, like a star, 
shone from one of his eyes as though reflecting a spotlight 
that wasn’t there. What is this? Clay could feel his face 


flush; he realized he hadn’t been breathing. He shuffled his 
hands on the desk like a conjurer calling forth a picture to 
reveal itself. One did. The last picture had been taken in 
Pirate’s Cove. Tables had been disturbed, he remembered. 
The scene was chaotic: the tables and chairs in disarray, 
clutter strewn through the halls. But unlike so many other 
times he had stared at this picture, he ignored the disorder 
and focused only on the stage. The curtain was pulled back 
Slightly, a figure barely visible in the recesses behind it, one 
eye presumably illuminated by the flash of a camera. Clay 
studied the rest of the pictures, looking for more reflections, 
but found none. There was no flash. 


* K OX 


Jason opened his eyes. His leg hurt; it was a steady, dull 
pain. He flexed it tentatively and found he could move 
easily; the injury could not be too bad. He was lying on 
something lumpy, and his whole body felt stiff, like he had 
been asleep on a pile of—he looked at what he was lying on 
—a pile of extension cords and wires. He sat up. It was dark, 
but he could dimly see what was around him. He bent over 
to examine his leg. His jeans were ripped where Foxy’s claw 
had gouged him, and the gash in his leg was ugly, but it was 
not bleeding badly. The hook had mostly got hold of his 
jeans. Jason felt a little relief. Satisfied, he began to examine 
his surroundings. He was in a corner, and there was a heavy 
black curtain strung from one wall to the other, cutting the 
space off from the room outside. He crawled forward over 
the cables cautiously, careful to make no sound. He made 
his way to the edge of the curtain, where there was a tiny 
Sliver of a gap between it and the wall. Jason took a moment 


to steel himself, then peeked out, conscious of his every 
movement. 

He was on the small stage in Pirate’s Cove, behind the 
curtain. He could hear something moving out there, 
something large, but from his position he could see only an 
empty room. He pushed his head out a little farther, craning 
his neck to look. He couldn’t tell where the sound was 
coming from, but with each second he grew bolder, 
readying himself to leap from the stage and run. A light was 
pulsing in the main dining room, illuminating the hall for 
brief seconds at a time with bright, dizzying carnival colors. 
It wasn’t much, but it gave Jason a direction to run. He 
watched it intently until it was all he could see, and then it 
stopped. The room was dark, darker than it had been before 
—his eyes had adjusted to the light and now he was nearly 
blind. The shuffling sound went on, and Jason pulled the 
curtain open farther. This time he moved too fast, and as 
the curtain was drawn, the metal rings that held it clinked 
together. 

The light above Pirate’s Cove went on. 

Foxy was there, right in front of him, his face so close to 
Jason’s that they could almost touch. Jason scrambled back 
through the curtain, pulling it closed again, trying to escape 
the small alcove, but there was nowhere to run. He crawled 
backward, staying against the wall, hoping that the curtain 
would somehow shield him from Foxy. 

At once, the curtain began to open, not by force, but as if 
a show were about to begin. Lights and color flashed in 
silent patterns, and the glittered front curtains rolled back in 
grand fashion to reveal the stage, with the beast standing 
patiently at its base. 


Foxy cocked his head to the side as if considering 
something, and then he began his approach. He climbed the 
stairs to the stage one by one, each step a whole series of 
disjointed movements, as if each piece of his metal body 
maneuvered itself individually. Jason watched, struck with 
horror, yet some small part of him was enthralled; it was like 
nothing he had ever seen. Foxy reached the stage and took 
two more large, deliberate steps, until he was standing over 
Jason. Jason stared up at him, too afraid to move, frozen in 
place like a mouse beneath a diving falcon. His breath was 
Shallow; his heart beat so fast his chest hurt. Foxy raised his 
hook again, and Jason threw himself down on the floor in a 
ball, protecting his head with his arms, waiting for the blow 
to come. 

It did not come. 

Jason did not move. He waited, and waited, wondering if 
time had slowed down as he approached the moment of his 
death, his mind trying to give him refuge, making the last 
moments feel as long as possible. But not this long. He 
opened his eyes and turned his head a little, keeping his 
arms in front of his face. Foxy was still there, not moving. 
Despite himself, Jason met the creature’s eyes. It was like 
looking into the sun—Foxy’s burning gaze made Jason’s 
eyes tear up, made him want to look away, but he could 
not. It was the animatronic who looked away. As Jason 
watched, peering through the afterburn that clouded his 
vision, Foxy turned to face his absent audience. His hook fell 
Slowly to his side, his head tilted forward, and he went 
motionless. The sounds of whirring machinery and clicking 
parts came to a stop, and the curtains drew closed again. 


* OK OX 


“Ready?” Lamar said. Marla nodded curtly. 

“I’m ready,” she said. She threw open the door, fists 
clenched, and they climbed out, facing opposite directions, 
preparing for an assault. Marla was breathing heavily, her 
face furious. The darkness was thick, almost tangible, and 
she could barely make out what was around her. She could 
see Lamar, but if they drifted three feet apart they would be 
lost to each other. The lights above them flickered, but only 
for a moment; the brief illumination ruined what little night 
vision they had, making the dark impenetrable. 

“Anything on your side?” Marla whispered. Lamar looked 
toward her voice, distressed. 

“No, anything on your side?” 

“Light, please,” Marla whispered. Lamar held up the 
flashlight as though aiming a weapon and turned it on. 
Above them, the lights sputtered. 


* XK OX 


Jason could see their flashlight waving back and forth, 
filtering through the slightly transparent curtain. Oh no. The 
light fell on the animatronic, just for a moment, and there 
was a clicking noise. Jason looked up. Foxy was not moving. 
The light swept across him again, and again the mechanical 
sounds came, this time unmistakable, though he still did not 
move. Jason scooted forward, around Foxy’s foot, and 
looked up at the animatronic’s face as the light struck him 
again. Again the clicking noise came; something inside him 
was readying itself, but his eyes stayed dark. Jason crawled 
as far forward as he was willing to venture, trying not to 
cross into Foxy’s line of sight. He made it to the edge of the 
curtain and reached his arm out to wave a warning. 


“Jason!” He heard his sister’s voice, and then a quick 
shushing from what must have been Lamar. The flashlight 
Swept up, trained on the stage, and Foxy’s eyes lit up. His 
head swept toward the light with a predatory precision, and 
Jason, panicked, reached for the pile of cords and grabbed a 
cable. Foxy lifted a foot, and Jason threw the cord around it 
and yanked with all his strength. Foxy pitched forward, 
grabbing at the curtain with his hook. It caught, ensnaring 
him, and he ripped through the cloth with a vicious tearing 
noise, falling to the ground in a tangle of cloth and metal 
limbs. Jason scrambled past the struggling creature and ran 
toward the light. 

Marla reached for him, but he brushed her aside. 

“Run,” he panted, and the three of them took off down 
the hall. They turned a corner, and as one they stopped, 
Jason skidding against Lamar and grabbing him for support. 
At the end of the dark hall stood another figure, too large to 
be a person. The top hat was unmistakable. 

Freddy Fazbear. 

His eyes were illuminated, their piercing red glow 
consuming the space around him. They could hear the 
brittle notes of a song, mechanical and thin like a music box, 
coming from Freddy’s direction. They stared, mesmerized, 
then Jason found himself and pulled at Marla’s arm. 

“Come on,” he hissed, and they followed him, running 
back the way they had come. When they reached Pirate’s 
Cove they slowed; Foxy had thrown off the curtain and was 
beginning to right himself. The three exchanged glances, 
then ran past him. Jason held his breath until they were 
through to the next doorway, invoking some. old 
Superstition. 


Lamar motioned to one of the party rooms, and they 
ducked inside. He switched off the flashlight, and they stood 
still for a moment, their eyes adjusting. The room had three 
long, cafeteria-style tables, each one still set for a party: 
Metal folding chairs were lined all up and down them, and 
each place was set with a party hat, a paper plate, and a 
plastic cup. By wordless agreement, each hid beneath a 
different table, leaving themselves as much space as 
possible. They crouched low, hoping to be lost behind the 
chair legs, and together they stared silently into the vacant 
hall and listened. 


“Hello? Anyone?” John repeated into the radio, but there 
was only static. He had managed to hook the walkie-talkie 
into the sound system, but getting a signal to the outside 
seemed impossible—Freddy’s was sealed off from the world. 
He looked at the monitors again. On one screen he could 
see three figures crouched under tables. Marla, Lamar, and 
Jason, he thought. They found Jason, he realized with 
profound relief, letting go of a tension he had not known he 
felt. Everything on-screen was lit with unnatural grays and 
whites. “These must be night-vision cameras,” he said to no 
one, squinting to see through the static. He watched the 
blurry figures crawl and come to a stop beneath the long 
party tables, then movement from another screen caught 
his eye. 

There was a figure in the hallway, moving steadily toward 
the room they were in. John could not tell what it was, but 
the way it moved wasn’t human. It stopped beside a 
doorway, and with a sudden jolt of realization John looked 


again at the party room where his friends were hiding. He 
grabbed the walkie-talkie and flipped the speaker system 
on, Jamming the volume control as high as it would go. 

“Lamar,” he said calmly, trying to sound commanding. 
He heard the reverberation of his own voice through the 
walls of the control room. “Lamar, don’t move.” 


* K OX 


John’s voice blared over the speaker, blurred with static but 
intelligible. 

“Lamar, don’t move.” 

Lamar, Marla, and Jason looked at one another across the 
distance between the tables. The room lit up with a burning 
red glow, and they watched, as still as they could be, as 
Freddy Fazbear entered the room. His movements were 
mechanical and graceless as he walked with deliberate 
steps to the middle of the room and stopped between two 
tables; Marla on one side, Jason on the other. Jason looked 
at his sister, and she put a finger to her lips. Jason hadn't 
realized that there were tears on his cheeks until now. 

He watched as Freddy surveyed the room. His head, with 
eyes like spotlights, whirred to one side, stopped with a 
click, and then turned to the other side. There was a long 
pause. The two padded feet were motionless, the legs like 
black trees in a forest. There was a sound of twisting fur and 
crinkling fabric, and the feet began to pivot. Freddy turned 
around and headed for the door, each step shaking the floor 
beneath him. As Freddy passed by, Jason shrank back 
instinctively, his foot hitting one of the metal chairs. It made 
a scraping sound. Jason’s heart raced. Frantic, he looked 
across the space at Marla, who beckoned to him urgently. 


Freddy had stopped, but they could still hear the sound of 
fabric and fur scrunching and moving. Freddy began to bend 
down. His motions were slow, and in those precious few 
seconds Jason pushed the two chairs in front of him apart, 
making a gap just wide enough for him to be able to crawl 
behind Freddy as soon as he had the chance. The light of 
Freddy’s eyes came into view under the table, illuminating 
the space beside Jason, and he quickly but quietly crawled 
between the chairs to where Marla was hiding. Freddy stood 
again, training his eyes on the floor just as Jason pulled his 
foot out of sight. 

Freddy began to pivot toward the table they were under. 
Marla put a hand on Jason’s arm, steadying him. There was 
another pause. Lamar, under the table opposite them, 
beckoned to Marla and Jason, urging them to his own table, 
farther away from Freddy. Marla shook her head, not 
wanting to risk making noise. Maybe he’s leaving, she told 
herself. Jason was beginning to breathe normally again 
when it struck them: Freddy was ducking down again, this 
time silently. His eyes had gone dark, but as soon as they 
spotted him, his gaze lit up again, illuminating the room. 
Marla and Jason scrambled around the metal chairs as fast 
as they could without touching them. They crawled across 
the thin carpet between tables until they came across an 
opening in the chairs and crawled under the table beside 
Lamar. Marla and Lamar looked at each other, at a loss; 
Freddy was straightened up again and beginning to circle 
around to the third table. 

“We have to run for the door,” Marla whispered. Lamar 
nodded, then motioned for them to follow his lead. He 
watched, waiting until Freddy was bending down once 
again, and then gestured to the middle table. They caught 


their breath, trying not to gasp, and Lamar looked toward 
the door. Could they make it? Marla put a hand on Jason’s 
Shoulder, and he started to shrug her off, but she was 
gripping him tightly, her fingers digging into him. He moved 
to brush her away, then looked at her. She was terrified, 
even more than he was. He let her hold on to him while 
keeping his eyes on Freddy, waiting for their next opening. 

It didn’t come. As they waited, poised for flight, Freddy 
turned away, his deliberate steps taking him to the doorway. 
The room went dark, and Jason’s heart skipped before he 
understood what had happened. The lights were gone 
because Freddy was gone. 

“Marla,” he whispered, his voice little more than a breath 
of air. “He’s gone.” Marla looked at him and nodded, but she 
did not let go of his shoulder. 

“Are you Okay?” she asked in the same almost soundless 
way. He nodded, then pointed to his leg and shrugged 
theatrically. She smiled at him and took her hand from his 
shoulder to muss his hair. 

Suddenly Lamar was tapping Marla’s arm. He pointed to 
his ear, and she gave him a puzzled look. Jason stiffened, 
realizing what it was, and in a second Marla did, too. There 
was music in the room, a tinny, labored sound like a music 
box, the gaps between the notes just a little too long. The 
room lit up again, a drowning red, and before they could 
move, the table was wrenched away. Freddy stood over 
them. He shoved the table aside, almost hurling it. They 
screamed—not a scream for help but the last, futile act of 
defiance. Jason clung to his sister, and she pulled his head 
down against her, shielding his eyes so he would not have 
to see. 


Suddenly, Freddy stumbled off-balance and lurched to 
the side. He tried to right himself, but another jolt from 
behind sent him flying forward, falling face-first into the 
tables. Marla, Lamar, and Jason looked up to see Charlie and 
John, their faces flushed with effort. 

“Come on,” Charlie said. “Let’s go.” 


* OK OX 


Dave shrugged out of his bonds quickly; the knots were 
sturdy, but the cords had too much give—a few twists and 
turns and he was free. He crawled to the door on hands and 
knees and held his ear to the crack, careful not to jostle the 
door and give himself away. 

The loudspeaker blared, and then the sound he had been 
waiting for: footsteps, running away. 

He waited just until the sound faded, then got 
purposefully to his feet. 


* OK OX 


“Where are we going?” Marla panted as they raced back 
toward the main dining room. 

“The office,” Charlie called. “It’s got a real door; we can 
barricade ourselves in.” She glanced at John, who nodded 
Shortly. What they would do once they were barricaded 
inside was another question, but they could worry about 
that once they were safe. They ran through the dining room; 
Charlie glanced at the stage, blurred in passing, but she saw 
what she knew she would: It was empty. 

They reached the narrow hall that led to the office, and 
Charlie’s heart lifted when she saw the door, light shining 
from its small window like a beacon. 


Wait, light? 

She slowed her pace; they were ten feet from the door. 
She lifted a hand, signaling the others to stop, and they 
approached the door slowly. Steeling herself, Charlie 
grabbed the knob and turned. It was locked. She looked 
helplessly at the others. 

“Someone's in there,” Jason whispered, moving closer to 
Marla. 

“There’s no one else here,” Marla said softly, but it 
sounded like a question. Charlie was about to try the door 
again, but stopped herself. Don’t draw their attention. 

“He got loose!” Jessica said, her voice hoarse, and 
Charlie felt a chill. She’s right. She didn’t say it. 

“We have to go back,” she said. Without waiting for a 
response, she turned, pushing between Lamar and John to 
take the lead. She took two steps forward, then stopped 
dead as she heard the others gasp. 

It was Chica, her eyes like burning orange headlights. 

She stood at the other end of the short hall, blocking 
their only way out. Her body filled the space; they could not 
even try to run past her. Charlie glanced behind her, even 
though she knew there was no other way out. Before she 
could react, John was running at the animatronic. He had no 
weapons, but he hurtled himself toward the thing and 
leaped up, trying to grab hold of her neck. He caught it 
briefly, struggling to hold on as Chica thrashed her head 
back and forth. Chica bent forward and swung to the side, 
Slamming John into the wall, and John let go, crumpling to 
the floor. The cupcake on Chica’s platter snapped its mouth 
as if laughing, its eyes rolling in their tiny sockets. 

“John!” Charlie cried as she thrust the flashlight back for 
someone else to take. She felt its weight leave her hands, 


but she didn’t look back to see who took it. She looked up; 
there was an electrical cord dangling above their heads. 
Parts of the rubber had worn away, exposing stretches of 
bare wire. Chica was slowly advancing. Charlie jumped up, 
but she could not get high enough to reach it. She looked to 
either side. /s it narrow enough? She glanced at Chica. She 
was moving slowly, with measured steps; they were 
trapped, and she did not need to hurry. Charlie planted one 
foot against the wall, then stretched her leg across the 
narrow hallway and did the same on the other side, bracing 
between the walls to climb. She inched upward, her legs 
Shaking with the effort. She looked up, struggling to retain 
her balance as she reached for the cord. Careful to touch 
only the rubber, she closed her fingers around it and 
dropped to the ground. Chica lunged forward, her arms 
extended and her teeth contorted in a mechanical smile. 

Charlie sprang up, the electrical cord brandished in front 
of her, and she shoved it into the space between Chica’s 
head and her torso. Chica jerked backward, sparks flying, 
and for a horrible moment Charlie could not move. Her hand 
throbbed with the electric current, and she was caught 
there, unable to make her hand let go of the wire. She 
stared down at it, willing her fingers to open. /s this how | 
die? Lamar grabbed her and pulled her away, and she 
looked up at him wide-eyed. The others were already 
running. Chica was deactivated, or so it appeared, slumped 
forward, her eyes dark. Lamar gave her arm a tug, and they 
took off after the others. 


With a pleased smile, Dave watched the confrontation 
through the window in the office door. /ust a matter of time 
now, he thought. The girl had been clever, climbing the 
walls like that, but she had almost killed herself. They could 
not last much longer. All he had to do was wait. 

Suddenly, the room was lit with an ethereal blue. He 
froze, then slowly turned. Bonnie. The animatronic towered 
over him, close enough to touch. Dave fell back against the 
door and screamed. 


There was a scream from the direction of the office. The 
group paused for a minute and looked nervously at one 
another. 

“It doesn’t matter,” Charlie said. “Come on.” 

She took a quick look back at Chica, who was still 
Slumped forward, inert. Charlie led them into the main 
dining room. As they emerged, there was a_ sudden 
movement. Foxy was there. 

He leaped onto a table in front of them, looking among 
them until his silver eyes lit on Jason. He crouched as if he 
were about to jump on the boy, and Charlie grabbed a 
napkin dispenser and threw it as hard as she could. It struck 
Foxy’s head, glancing off with little effect, but it was enough 
to get his attention. He turned to her and pounced. 

Charlie was already running, racing to lure him away 
from the others. Then what? she thought as she ran 
furiously out of the dining room and down the hall. The 
arcade. It was dark; there were things to hide behind. 

She kept running full-out until she reached the door, then 
turned so fast she almost fell, hoping to give Foxy a 


moment’s disorientation. She looked around frantically. 
There was a row of arcade machines at the back of the 
room, set out just a little from the wall. She heard footsteps 
behind her and dove for it. 

The space was so tight she could barely squeeze herself 
into it. Her sides were pressed between the consoles and 
the wall, and there were thick, coiled wires beneath her feet. 
She took a step back, moving deeper into the crawl space, 
but her foot slipped on a cable, and she barely kept from 
falling. Movement in the room caught her eye, and she saw 
a flash of silver light. 

He sees me. 

Charlie dropped to her hands and knees. She crawled 
backward, scooting inch by inch. Her foot caught on a cable 
and she stopped to free it, twisting into an impossible 
position to quietly dislodge it. She moved back farther, and 
then her foot bumped against another wall, and she 
stopped. She was closed in on three sides; it almost felt 
safe. She closed her eyes for a moment. Nothing here is 
safe. 

There was an awful sound, a clash of metal hitting metal, 
and the console at the far end of the row rocked on its 
foundation, banging back against the wall. Foxy leaned over 
it, and now Charlie could see him as he smashed the 
display, spilling shards of plastic onto the floor. His hook 
caught on something inside the machine, and he yanked it 
out again, trailing bits of wire. 

He moved on to the next game, smashing the screen and 
throwing the console against the wall with a casual brutality. 
Charlie felt the impact of it echoing through the wall as he 
moved closer. 


| have to get out. | have to! But there was no way out. 
Now that she was sitting in one place, she realized that her 
arm was stiff with pain, and only now did she look at it. The 
bandage was soaked through with blood; the wall beside her 
was streaked with a line of it where her arm had pressed. 
She wanted to cry suddenly. Her whole body ached. The 
wound in her arm, the constant tension of the last day or so 
—who could tell how long it had been?—was draining her, 
taking all she had. 

The next console crashed against the wall, and Charlie 
flinched. It was only two away. He was almost to her. She 
could hear his gears working, humming, grinding, and 
sometimes screeching. She closed her eyes, but she could 
still see him: his matted fur, the metal bones showing 
through, the searing silver eyes. 

The console beside her was wrenched away and tumbled 
to the ground like it weighed nothing at all. The cords 
beneath Charlie’s hands and knees jerked forward with it, 
and she slipped, grabbing at nothing, trying to regain her 
balance. She caught herself and looked up just in time to 
see the downward swing of a hook. 

She moved faster than she could think. She hurled 
herself at the final console with all her strength, and it 
balanced precariously, then fell, knocking Foxy to the 
ground and trapping him. Charlie started to run, but his 
hook shot out and snared her leg, cutting into her. She 
screamed, falling to the ground. She kicked at him with her 
other foot, but his hook was stuck deep in her leg; every 
time he jerked back she felt the impact. She kicked him in 
the face, and his hook tore free, slicing open her leg. She 
screamed again, instinctively grabbing the wound, and then 
Foxy was on top of her, snapping his jaws and clawing her 


as he tried to free his legs from under the console. She 
fought back, struggling to get away. His hook slashed at her 
again and again as she tried to block the blows, screaming 
for help. 

Suddenly John was there. He stood over Foxy and 
stomped down hard on the creature’s neck, holding his foot 
there. Foxy flailed but could not reach him. 

“Charlie, get up!” he called. Charlie just stared at him for 
a second, too shaken to register the question. He stamped 
his foot on Foxy’s neck repeatedly, and then in one quick 
movement, he grabbed Charlie’s hand, heaved her up, and 
started to run, pulling her along behind him. They made it to 
the main dining room, where the rest of the group was 
huddled in the middle of the room. Relieved, Charlie rushed 
to join them. She could tell she was limping, but she did not 
feel any pain, which, she realized somewhere dimly in the 
back of her mind, was not good. When they got to the 
others, her heart sank. Their faces were grim. Lamar was 
holding the flashlight out in front of him, but it rattled in his 
trembling grip. 

Marla gestured quickly to the entrances. Freddy stood in 
the hall to the storage room, while Bonnie now blocked the 
hallway to the office. Chica, reanimated, stood on the stage, 
looming over them. Charlie glanced back the way they had 
come. 

Foxy was approaching; he had freed himself. He stopped 
in the doorway as if waiting for a signal. There was no 
escape. Suddenly acutely aware of everything around her, 
Charlie noticed the sound of a music box, as if she had, 
unconsciously, been hearing it all along. She took a deep 
breath. The moment seemed to go on forever. It had come 
to this; they were trapped. They waited. Now, perhaps, for 


the animatronics, there was no hurry. Charlie cast her eyes 
around futilely for a weapon, but there were only party hats 
and paper plates. 

As one, the animatronics started their approach. Charlie 
grabbed the back of a metal folding chair, not sure how she 
could even use it. The animals were moving faster now, 
coming in unison, as if this battle were a choreographed 
dance. Marla took Jason’s hand and whispered something in 
his ear. Whatever it was, he shook his head, set his jaw, and 
balled his hands into fists. Lamar glanced at him for a 
moment but said nothing. Jessica had her hands stiffly at 
her sides, and she was murmuring something to herself 
inaudibly. The animals were almost on top of them. Freddy’s 
trundling walk was predatory, and the music box notes were 
coming from Freddy’s direction—from inside Freddy, she 
now realized. Chica leaped from the stage and took small, 
bouncing steps toward them as if excited but holding herself 
back. Bonnie’s big, paw-like feet slapped the ground like a 
challenge, and Foxy slunk forth with a malevolent grace, his 
eyes fixed on Charlie as if she were the only thing he saw. 
She gazed into his silver eyes. They filled her vision, 
crowding out everything else until the world was silver, the 
world was Foxy’s eyes, and there was nothing left of her. 

John squeezed her hand. It broke the spell; she looked at 
him, her vision still cloudy. 

“Charlie,” he said haltingly. “... Charlotte—” 

“Shh,” she said. “Later.” He nodded, accepting the lie 
that there would be a later. Foxy crouched down again, and 
Charlie let go of John, her heart pounding as she braced for 
it. Foxy’s joints shifted in their sockets as he prepared to 
spring—then he stopped. Charlie waited. There were no 
screams from behind her, no sounds of fighting; even the 


music box was silent. Foxy was motionless, though his eyes 
still glowed. Charlie looked around, and then she saw. 

It was Freddy. Not the one they all knew, not the one who 
stood less than a foot away from Marla, his mouth open as if 
poised to bite. It was the other one, the one she 
remembered, the yellow Freddy from the diner. The costume 
her father used to wear. It was looking at them, staring from 
the corner, and now she heard something. It was indistinct, 
just whispers in her head, a gentle susurrus, blowing 
through her conscious mind without taking hold. She looked 
at the others and knew they heard it, too. It was 
indecipherable, but the meaning was unmistakable. 

Carlton was the one to Say it: 

“Michael?” 

The sounds they heard grew warm, an_ unspoken 
confirmation, and together they approached the golden 
bear. Marla brushed past brown Freddy as if he were not 
there, and Charlie turned her back to Foxy, unafraid. There 
was only one thought in her mind: Michael. It’s you. 

They were almost to him. All Charlie wanted to do was 
fling her arms around him, hold him close, and to be again 
the little girl she was so long ago. To embrace him again, 
this beloved child who had been ripped from their lives on 
that carefree afternoon. To do it all over, and this time to 
rescue him, this time to save his life. 

“Michael,” she whispered. 

The yellow bear stood motionless. Unlike the others, 
there seemed to be nothing inside of it; it stood of its own 
accord, by its own will. There was nothing to hold the 
costumed jaw closed, and its eyes were empty. 

Suddenly aware that their backs were to the other 
animals, Charlie startled and turned, apprehensive. Freddy, 


Bonnie, Chica, and Foxy stood at rest, almost as if they were 
back on their stages. Their eyes were locked on Charlie, but 
they had halted their approach. 

“It’s the kids,” Carlton whispered. 

“Foxy wasn’t attacking Jason,” Marla gasped. “Foxy was 
trying to protect him.” 

John took hesitant steps toward the middle of the dining 
room, then approached more boldly, looking at each of the 
robots in turn. “It’s the kids,” he echoed. “All of them.” Their 
faces were no longer animalistic, no longer lifeless, as if 
some spirit inhabited them. 

Suddenly, there was a crash from the sealed exit door. 

They all startled, turning as one as the wall beside the 
welded entrance shook with the force of a dozen blows. 

Now what? Charlie thought. 

The bricks broke and fell, scattering in pieces across the 
floor, dust filling the air in rusty clouds. A figure stepped 
through the hole wielding a massive sledgehammer, and as 
the air slowly cleared, they saw who it was: Clay Burke, 
Carlton’s father. 

His eyes set on Carlton, and he dropped the hammer and 
ran to his son, sweeping him into an embrace. Clay stroked 
his hair, gripping him like he would never let go. Charlie 
watched from her distance, relief touched by a stiletto edge 
of envy. 

“Dad, I’m gonna puke,” Carlton murmured. Clay laughed 
but leaned back when he saw that Carlton wasn’t kidding. 
Carlton bent over, hands on his knees, fighting the urge to 
retch, and Clay’s face took on alarm. Carlton straightened. 
“I’m good.” 

Clay was not listening anymore. He was looking around 
the room, at the animals. All of them were frozen in time, 


displaced. 

“Okay, kids,” Clay said, his voice low and his words 
careful. “I think it’s time for us to go.” He started toward the 
exit he had made. 

They glanced at one another. The whispers were gone. 
Whatever he had been, the yellow Freddy was slouched 
again, an empty suit, though no one had seen it move. 
Charlie nodded toward Clay, and the rest started forward, 
heading almost reluctantly to the hole in the wall. Charlie 
hung back. John stayed beside her, but she gestured him 
forward, taking up the rear. 

She had barely had time to take a step when something 
took hold of her throat. 

Charlie tried to cry out, but her windpipe was being 
crushed. She was whipped around as if she weighed 
nothing, and she found herself face-to-face with the yellow 
rabbit. Dave’s eyes were shining through, triumphant. He 
had his arm around her neck, squeezing her throat so tightly 
that she could scarcely breathe. He held her so close it was 
almost an embrace. She could smell the costume, stained 
fur and years of putrid sweat, blood, and cruelty. 

He spoke, still staring at Charlie. 

“You are staying.” 

“Absolutely not,” Clay said, taking on the group’s 
authority. 

Dave dug his fingers deeper into Charlie’s neck, and she 
made a strangled sound. 

“| will kill this one, right here, while you watch, unless 
you do as | say,” he said, and his voice was almost pleasant. 
Clay looked at him for a long moment, calculating, then 
nodded. 


“Okay,” he said, his voice calm. “We’ll do as you Say. 
What do you want?” 

“Good,” Dave said. He relaxed his grip on Charlie’s neck, 
and she took a shaky breath. Clay began to move toward 
them, and the others followed. Charlie looked up at the man 
in the rabbit suit, and he met her gaze. /t was you. You killed 
Michael. You killed Sammy. You took them from me. His eyes 
should have held something fierce and dangerous. They 
should have been windows to the rotten core inside. But 
they were only eyes, flat and empty. 

Charlie plunged her hands into the gap beneath the 
costume’s head. Dave drew back, but she held on. 

“If you want to be one of them, then be one of them!” 
she shouted, and she tripped the spring locks. Dave’s eyes 
widened, and then he screamed. Charlie jerked her hands 
free, barely evading the locks as they snapped open and 
plunged into his neck. She took a step back, watching as 
Dave crumpled to the ground, still screaming as the 
costume released. Part by part, the animatronic insides 
pierced his flesh, ripping up his organs, tearing through his 
body as if it were not even there. At some point he stopped 
screaming, but he still writhed on the floor for what felt like 
long minutes before he was still. 

Charlie stared, breathing hard as if she had been 
running. The form on the ground seemed unreal. John was 
the first to move. He came beside her, but, still staring 
down, she waved him off before he could touch her. She 
could not bear it if he did. 

Jessica gasped, and they all looked up. The animatronics 
were moving. The group drew back, huddling together, but 
none of the animals were looking at them. One by one they 
took hold of the broken body on the floor and began to drag 


it away toward the hall to Pirate’s Cove. As_ they 
disappeared down the hallway, Charlie noticed that the 
yellow Freddy was gone. 

“Let’s go,” she said quietly. 

Clay Burke nodded, and they filed out of the restaurant 


for the last time. 





The sun was rising as they emerged into the open air. 

Clay put his arm around Carlton’s shoulder, and for once 
Carlton didn’t brush him away with a joke. Charlie nodded 
absently, blinking in the light. “Carlton and | are taking a 
drive to the ER,” Clay continued. “Is there anyone else who 
needs a doctor?” 

“I’m fine,” Charlie said reflexively. 

“Jason, do you need to go to the hospital?” Marla asked. 

“No,” he said. 

“Let’s see your leg,” she insisted. The party stopped as 
Jason held his leg out for Clay to examine. Charlie felt an 
odd relief wash through her. A grown-up was in charge now. 
After a moment, Clay looked up at Jason with a serious face. 

“| don’t think we’re going to have to cut it off,” he said. 
“Not just yet.” Jason smiled, and Clay turned to Marla. “I'll 


” 


take care of him. It might leave a scar, but that’ll just make 
him look tough.” 

Marla nodded and winked at Jason, who laughed. 

“| need to change my clothes,” Charlie said. It seemed 
like a petty thing to be worrying about, but her shirt and 
pants were wet with blood in some places, dry and stiff in 
others. It was beginning to itch. 

“You're a mess,” Carlton pointed out redundantly. “Will 
she get a ticket if she drives like that?” 

“Charlie, are you sure you don’t need to go to the 
hospital?” Marla said, turning her laser-like concern on her 
friend now that her brother had been declared safe. 

“I’m fine,” Charlie said again. “I just need to change my 
clothes. We'll stop at the motel.” 

When they reached the cars, they split into what had 
become their habitual groups: Marla, Jason, and Lamar in 
Marla’s car; Charlie, John, and Jessica in Charlie’s. Charlie 
opened the door to the driver’s side and stopped, looking 
back at the building. It wasn’t just her; out of the corner of 
her eye she could see them all gazing at it. The empty mall 
was dark against the pink-streaked sky, long and squat, like 
something brutish and slumbering. They all turned away, 
getting into the cars without speaking. Charlie kept her eyes 
on it, watching as she started her car, waiting to turn her 
back to it until the last possible moment. She pulled out of 
the lot and drove away. 

Along the road, the cars split off. Clay and Carlton took 
the other turn out of the parking lot, heading to the hospital, 
and Charlie turned off toward the motel while Marla 
continued to the Burkes’ house. 

“I call first shower!” Jessica said as they got out of the 
car, then, seeing Charlie’s face, “I’ll make a_ special 


exception in your case. You go first.” 

Charlie nodded. In the room, she grabbed her bag and 
took it into the bathroom with her, leaving John and Jessica 
to wait. She locked the door behind her and undressed, 
deliberately not looking at the gashes on her arm and leg. 
She didn’t need to see what was there, just to clean and 
bandage it. She got into the shower and let out a quiet yelp 
as the stinging water hit her open cuts, but she gritted her 
teeth and cleaned herself, washing her hair over and over 
until it was rinsed clean. 

She got out and toweled herself dry, then sat down on 
the edge of the tub, put her face in her hands, and closed 
her eyes. 

She was not ready to go out yet, not ready to face 
whatever aftermath, whatever discussion there might have 
to be. She wanted to walk out of this bathroom and never 
speak again of what had happened. She rubbed her 
temples. She didn’t have a headache, but there was 
pressure inside there, something that had yet to emerge. 

You can’t stay here forever. 

Charlie still had the gauze and tape from the first time 
around, so she took it from her bag, wiped both wounds 
clean with a hotel towel, and bound up her arm and leg, 
using all the gauze. / probably need stitches, she thought, 
but it was only an idle thought. She would not do it. She got 
up and went to look in the mirror. There was a cut across her 
cheek; it had stopped bleeding, but it was ugly. She didn’t 
know how she could cover it, but she didn’t really want to, 
for the same reason she didn’t want stitches. She wanted 
them to heal wrong, wanted them to scar. She wanted proof, 
displayed on her body: This happened. This was real. This is 
what it did to me. 


She dressed quickly in her jeans and her last remaining 
clean T-shirt and emerged from the bathroom to find Jessica 
and John carrying suitcases out to the car. 

“| figured there was no point leaving stuff here,” Jessica 
said. “We’re all going in the morning; we may as well bring 
it all to Carlton’s.” Charlie nodded and grabbed Jason’s 
backpack, taking it out to the car along with her own. 


* OK OX 


Carlton and his father were already back by the time they 
arrived, and again they entered Carlton’s living room, now 
almost familiar. Carlton was curled up in an armchair by the 
fireplace, where someone had lit a fire, and Marla and 
Lamar were on the couch. Jason sat right in front of the 
fireplace, staring in at the licking flames. Charlie sat down 
near him, arranging herself stiffly. John joined her, looking at 
her with concern, but she ignored him, and he said nothing. 

“Are you Okay?” Charlie asked, reaching up and rubbing 
Carlton’s arm for a moment. He looked at her sleepily. 

“Yeah, it’s a mild concussion,” he said. “I'll be fine as 
long as no one else tries to murder me.” 

“So ... now what?” Jessica asked as she took the chair 
beside Carlton. “| mean—” She paused, searching for words. 
“What happens?” she said finally. They looked at each other; 
it was the question they all had. What do you do after 
something like this? Charlie looked at Clay, who was 
standing in the doorway, only half in the room. 

“Mr.—Clay, what happens now?” she said quietly. He 
looked off into the distance for a minute before answering. 

“Well, Charlie, I’m going to go back to Freddy’s. | have to 
get my officer,” he said gravely. “Il won’t go alone.” He 


forced a smile, but no one joined him. “What do you think 
Should happen?” he asked. He was looking at Charlie, 
asking her this impossible question as if she could answer it. 
She nodded, accepting responsibility. 

“Nothing,” she said. “It’s over. | want to leave it that 
way.” 

Clay gave her a nod, his face impassive. She could not 
tell if it was the answer he was looking for, but it was all she 
had. The others were silent. Marla and Lamar were nodding, 
but Jessica looked like she wanted to protest. 

“Jessica, what?” Charlie said gently, realizing with unease 
that her friend wanted her permission to disagree. 

“It just seems wrong,” she said. “What about 
everything? | mean, people should know, right? That’s how 
it works. That guard, he murdered all those kids, and people 
should know!” 

“No one will believe us,” Jason said without looking up. 

“Officer Dunn,” Jessica said. “Officer Dunn, he died in 
there! What will you tell his family? Will you tell them the 
truth?” She looked at Clay. 

“Officer Dunn died at the hands of the same man who 
killed your friends. | can prove that now.” A silence fell over 
the room. “It won’t bring them back,” Clay said softly. “But 
maybe it will give them some rest.” 

Clay turned his eyes to the fire, and a few minutes 
passed before he spoke again. 

“You kids have been carrying Freddy’s with you all these 
years. It’s time you left it behind,” he said. He was stern, but 
his commanding tone was reassuring. “I’m going to see to it 
that Officer Dunn is given a proper burial.” He paused, 
collecting himself, as though what he said next required 
effort. “Your friends, too.” His brow furrowed. “I have a few 


favors to call in, but | can make this happen quietly. The last 
thing | want to do is disturb that place, or desecrate it. 
Those kids need rest.” 


The next morning they began to go their separate ways. 
Marla offered to drive Lamar and Jessica to the bus station, 
and they said their good-byes with hugs and promises to 
write. Charlie wondered if any of them meant it. Marla 
probably did, at least. They pulled out of the Burkes’ 
driveway. 

“So my bus isn’t till later,” John said as Marla’s car 
disappeared around a bend in the road. 

“! wouldn’t mind a few more hours in Hurricane,” Charlie 
answered. To her surprise, she realized it was true. 

John flashed her a quick, almost nervous smile. 

“Okay, then,” he said. 

“Let’s get out of there. Let’s go somewhere, anywhere.” 

When they were alone in the car, John gave her a 
sideways glance. 

“So,” he said, “are we ever going to see each other after 
this?” He tried to say it lightly, but there was no way to 
lighten it. Charlie stared straight ahead. 

“Maybe,” she said. She could not look at him. It wasn’t 
the answer he wanted, she knew that, but she could not 
give him what he wanted. What could she say by way of 
explanation? /t’s not you, it’s the weight we both bear. It’s 
too much. When you are here, | can’t ignore it. 

But something in her thoughts felt off, not quite right, as 
if she were speaking by rote, thinking off a script. It was like 
flinching instinctively to protect an _ injury’ before 


remembering it had healed. She finally looked at John 
beside her. He was staring through the windshield, his jaw 
set. 

“| have somewhere | need to go,” she said abruptly, then 
made a slow U-turn. She had never gone to visit the place, 
but now, without warning, her mind was consumed by it. 
Aunt Jen had never suggested it; Charlie had never asked. 
She knew where it was, though, and now she headed there 
with a singular sense of purpose. / need to see. 


* OK OX 


Charlie pulled to a stop in a small gravel parking lot beside a 
low fence of short white posts, chains swinging between 
them. 

“Il just need a minute,” she said. John gave her a 
concerned look. 

“Are you sure you want to do this now?” he said softly. 
She did not answer, just got out of the car, closing the door 
behind her. 

The graveyard before them was almost a hundred years 
old. There were hills of lush grass and shading trees. This 
corner was at the edge of the cemetery; there was a small 
house only a few yards past the edge of the fence. The 
grass was trimmed neatly, but it was patchy and yellowing. 
The trees had been pruned too far so the lower branches 
were bare, too exposed. 

There was a telephone pole set just inside the fence, 
barely on the cemetery grounds, and beside it were two 
headstones, plain and small. Charlie stared at it for a long 
moment, not moving. She tried to conjure up the right 
feeling: grief and loss so that she could mourn. Instead, she 


just felt a numbness. The graves were there, but the sight 
did not touch her. She took a deep breath and started 
toward them. 

It was such a small memory, one of those moments that 
meant nothing at the time, just one day in a series of days, 
the same as all the others. They were together, just the two 
of them, and it must have been before everything, before 
Fredbear’s went wrong, before anyone was dead. 

They were sitting out back behind Fredbear’s, looking out 
over the hills, and a crow landed and began pecking in the 
dirt, looking for something. There was something about its 
sharp, darting movements that struck her as the funniest 
thing she had ever seen. Charlie began to laugh, and her 
father looked at her. She pointed, and he turned his head, 
trying to see as she did, but he could not tell what she was 
pointing at. She could not get it across to him, she did not 
know the words, and just as her excitement was about to 
turn to frustration, he saw it, too. Suddenly he laughed and 
pointed to the crow. Charlie nodded, and he met her eyes, 
looking at her with an expression of pure, boundless delight, 
as If it would fill him to bursting. 

“Oh, Charlotte,” he said. 


Turn the page for sneak peek at the next thrilling book in the 
series, The Twisted Ones! 


The sequel-to the #1 New -York Times bestseller 








Don’t trust your eyes.” 

Dr. Treadwell walked back and forth across the platform 
at the front of the auditorium. Her steps were slow and 
even, almost hypnotic. 

“Your eyes deceive you every day, filling in the blanks for 
you in a world of sensory overload.” An image of dizzying 
geometric detail lit up the canvas screen behind her. “When 
| say ‘sensory overload’ | mean that quite literally. At every 
moment, your senses are receiving far more information 
than they can process all at once, and your mind is forced to 
choose which signals to pay attention to. It does that based 
on your experiences, and your expectation of what is 
normal. The things we are familiar with are the things we 
can—for the most part—ignore. We see this most easily with 
olfactory fatigue: your nose ceases to perceive a smell when 


you've been around it for a while. You may be quite thankful 
for this phenomenon, depending on the habits of your 
roommate.” 

The class tittered dutifully, then became quiet as the 
image of another multicolored design flashed onto the 
screen. 

The professor gave a hint of a smile and continued. 

“Your mind creates motion when there is none. It fills in 
colors and trajectories based on what you've seen before, 
and calculates what you should be seeing now.” Another 
image flashed onto the overhead screen. “If your mind 
didn’t do this, then simply walking outside and seeing a tree 
would consume all your mental energy, leaving no resources 
to do anything else. In order for you to function in the world, 
your mind fills in the spaces of that tree with its own leaves 
and branches.” A hundred pencils scribbled all at once, 
filling the lecture hall with a sound like scurrying mice. 

“It’s why when you enter a house for the first time you 
experience a moment of dizziness. Your mind is taking in 
more than usual. It’s drawing a floor plan, creating a palette 
of colors, and saving an inventory of images to draw on 
later, so you don’t have to go through that exhausting 
intake every single time. The next time you enter that same 
house, you'll already know where you are.” 

“Charlie!” An urgent voice whispered her name, inches 
from her ear. Charlie kept writing. She was staring straight 
ahead at the display at the front of the lecture hall. As Dr. 
Treadwell went on, she paced faster, occasionally flinging an 
arm toward the screen to illustrate her point. Her words 
seemed to be falling behind as her mind raced on ahead; 
Charlie had realized by the second day of classes that her 
professor sometimes broke off in the middle of one 


sentence, only to finish an entirely different one. It was like 
she skimmed the text in her head, reading out a few words 
here and there. Most of the students in her robotics class 
found it maddening, but Charlie liked it. It made the lesson 
kind of like doing a puzzle. 

The screen flashed again, displaying an assortment of 
mechanical parts and a diagram of an eye. “This is what you 
must re-create.” Dr. Treadwell stepped back from the image, 
turning to look at it with the class. “Basic artificial 
intelligence is all about sensory control. You won’t be 
dealing with a mind that can filter these things out for itself. 
You must design programs that recognize basic shapes, 
while discarding unimportant information. You must do for 
your robot what your own mind does for you: create a 
simplified and organized assembly of information based on 
what’s relevant. Let’s start by looking at some examples of 
basic shape recognition.” 

“Charlie,” hissed the voice again, and she waved her 
pencil impatiently at the figure peering over her shoulder— 
her friend Arty—trying to shoo him away. The gesture cost 
her a moment, put her half a step behind the professor. She 
hurried to catch up, anxious not to miss a single line. 

The paper in front of her was covered in formulas, notes 
in the margins, sketches, and diagrams. She wanted to get 
everything down all at once: not just the math, but all the 
things it made her think of. If she could tie the new facts to 
things she already knew, she’d retain it much more easily. 
She felt hungry for it, alert, watching for new tidbits of 
information like a dog under the dinner table. 

A boy near the front raised his hand to ask a question, 
and Charlie felt a brief flare of impatience. Now the whole 
class would have to stop while Treadwell went back to 


explain a simple concept. Charlie let her mind wander, 
Sketching absently in the margins of her notebook. 

John would be here in—she glanced restlessly at her 
watch—an hour. / told him maybe someday we’ll see each 
other again. | guess it’s someday. He had called out of the 
blue: “I’m just going to be passing through,” he said, and 
Charlie hadn’t bothered to ask how he knew where she was. 
Of course he would know. There was no reason not to meet 
him, and she found herself alternately excited and filled with 
dread. Now, as she absently sketched rectangular forms 
along the bottom of her note paper, her stomach jumped, a 
little soasm of nerves. It felt like a lifetime since she last 
saw him. Sometimes, it felt like she’d seen him yesterday, 
as if the last year hadn’t passed. But of course it had, and 
everything had changed for Charlie once again. 

That May, the night of her eighteenth birthday, the 
dreams had begun. Charlie was long accustomed to 
nightmares, the worst moments of her past forced up like 
bile, into twisted versions of memories already too terrible 
to recall. She shoved these dreams into the back of her 
mind in the morning and sealed them away, Knowing they 
would only breach it when night fell again. 

These dreams were different. When she woke, she was 
physically exhausted: not just drained but sore, her muscles 
weak. Her hands were stiff and aching, like they’d been 
clenched into fists for hours. These new dreams didn’t come 
every night, but when they did, they interrupted her regular 
nightmares and took them over. It didn’t matter if she was 
running and screaming for her life, or wandering aimlessly 
through a dull mishmash of the various places she’d been 
all week. Suddenly, from nowhere, she would sense him: 
Sammy, her lost twin brother, was near. 


She knew he was present the same way she knew that 
she was present, and whatever the dream was, it dropped 
away—people, places, light, and sound. Now she was 
searching for him in the darkness, calling his name. He 
never answered. She would drop to her hands and knees, 
feeling her way through the dark, letting his presence guide 
her until she came to a barrier. It was smooth and cold, 
metal. She couldn’t see it, but she hit it hard with one fist 
and it echoed. “Sammy?” she would call, hitting harder. She 
stood, reaching up to see if she could scale the slick surface, 
but it stretched up far above her head. She beat her fists 
against the barricade until they hurt. She screamed her 
brother’s name until her throat was raw, until she fell to the 
floor and leaned on the solid metal, pressing her cheek to its 
cool surface and hoping for a whisper from the other side. 
He was there; she knew it as surely as if he were a part of 
herself. 

She knew in those dreams that he was present. Worse, 
when she was awake, she knew he was not there. 